The errors cancelled, the deep shadows banished,

In the glad sense of a new world begun:

To be a little child whose page of story

Is yet undimm'd, unblotted by a stain,

And in the sunrise of primeval glory

To know that life has had its start again!"

But, alas! the fresh start seems to be forfeited; the page is blotted; the sunrise is dimmed; the shadows seem brooding over an irrevocable past. "Sighs and tears and lamentations," to use the words of another, "are the echoes of unutterable sorrow made articulate…broken hearts and mental and spiritual agony are among its daily, hourly results" (Illingworth). King David's experience—the great warning beacon of Old Testament story—is ever familiar. None knew better than he the misery of wrongdoing, the heart in its agony, and sin in its baseness; the loss of selfrespect, the shipwreck of faith and of a good conscience. Like him, not a few with whom, in the course of long years, we have now and then come in contact in " the hottest rage of the battle," are constrained to pour forth in the ear of the All-seeing, All-searching, what they may have succeeded in screening from the eye and ken of man, "Against Thee, Thee only, have I sinned, and done this evil in Thy sight, that Thou mightest be justified when Thou speakest, and be clear when Thou judgest." I purposely state the case in its deepest, darkest colors—sins against light and love and duty and privilege; the skeleton in the closet that dare not be divulged, kept under lock and key, and yet that refuses to be charmed into oblivion; the stains on the hands depicted by our great dramatist that cannot be washed out, and which cleave to the soul with damning reality.

Is there no gleam of light in the Pillar of God for such? Or does the hopeless dirge alone wake the echoes of the wilderness —" the soul that sinneth it shall die "? Is the bridge, like that of the old Roman warrior, cut down behind, barring return: a fixed gulf, so that "they which would pass from hence to you cannot "?

There is one thing, let it be premised, that is righteously impossible. God, by a wise, immutable law, has so connected sin with suffering, and memory with transgression, that in one very real way the sense of this broken union with Him cannot, at all events in this world, be undone. There is a perpetuity in moral actions. There is no cancelling of that principle of equity, "Whatsoever a man soweth that shall he also reap." There is no oblivion-power to grant escape from the inexorable declaration, "Every man shall bear his own burden." "What I have written, I have written." In the case of the great delinquent just spoken of, who penned the fifty-first Psalm, the past could not be obliterated by repentance, however genuine and sincere. It is, indeed, the true wail of a penitent, but yet it is the dirge of a broken heart, a heart which, even with the bliss of assured forgiveness, carried its pang to a dying day. "My transgression," "My transgressions "—continued, like a cancer, gnawing the vitals of conscience. The gleam of the Pillar-cloud was never again so luminous as it had been in the brightness of his early days, when he sang his Shepherd-Psalm and felt the peace of the green pastures and the still waters. And so, every soul that has defiantly sinned must be content to bear the dishonorable scar, and say piteously to the last, "My sin is ever before me!"

But further than this we cannot go. If God, as set forth in prophecy and psalm and gospel, be anything, He is THE FORGIVER OF SIN. His name and memorial is "Thou wert a God that forgavest them " (Psalm 99:8). "O Israel, thou hast destroyed thyself; but in Me is thy help" (Hosea 13:9). "I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, thy transgressions, and, as a cloud, thy sins: return unto Me; for I have redeemed thee" (Isaiah 44:22). Even crimson and scarlet sins fail to exclude. I can read the words gleaming in the thick darkness, "I will be merciful to your unrighteousness, your sins and your iniquities will I remember no more."

And how is this? The Israelites in that Sinai desert had one pilgrim memory, perhaps more vivid than any other, which explained all. In the night of the Exodus, the blood of the Paschal Lamb was sprinkled on the lintels and door-posts of every Hebrew dwelling; and when all other homes of Egypt were smitten by death, the destroying Angel, as he saw the covenant-token— the "passover" to God's righteous wrath—passed the others unscathed. It was a glorious miracle and parable and type in one. "The blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth from all sin." That initiatory rite of the wilderness carries with it the voice of God to this hour—" When I see the blood I will pass over you" (Exodus 12:13). "Even when we were dead in sins" (DEAD—no qualification or exception surely here) "hath quickened us together with Christ." Borrowing from another desert memory, our true Aaron " stood between the living and the dead, and the plague was stayed." It is easy for cynics to interpose with a sneer, and cavil at the inequitableness of such declarations. 'Is it not,' is their covert taunt,' giving encouragement to sin in its worst phases? If there be such comfortable terms of condonement at last for an immoral life, why not plunge into maddest excesses, run riot in evil-doing, if a Savior be provided to remit all debts, cancel all claims, and throw wide to its utmost capacity a door of mercy?' It is the old carping insinuation, " Shall we continue in sin when grace so abounds?"

Be it so; sin, let us only say, has bitter enough deterrents and retribution, notwithstanding this free, gracious exercise of sovereign grace and mercy. But despite of innuendo and impeachment, we can only take God at His word, and accept with reverence and gratitude His own assurance of gospel forgiveness: forgiveness written on the Cross of Christ for all ages, for all climes, for all natures and all nations. We can only delight in thinking that to many a heart full of foreboding and " battered with the shocks of doom," the words have come like a plank to the castaway, "Wherefore He is able also to save to the uttermost!' The music of Christ's own Eirenicon has lost none of its pathos—a gospel enshrined in a gospel— "God so loved the world, that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life" (John 3:16). God be thanked that we have not to cut out of our Bibles the fifteenth chapter of St. Luke's Gospel!

Yes, and this is best of all; that music has been heard; the gospel message has been tasted and tested. The lost sheep has been brought home, the lost son has been found. He who met Saul on the way, has met many others like him who have listened, and trembled, and believed, and rejoiced. Dying lips have told the same story— "The chief of sinners; but I obtained mercy!" The cry of the lonely wanderer in the Church's prophetic song has been re-echoed by thousands— "I have found Him whom my soul loveth" (Solomon's Song, 3:4).

Oh, mourning one—mourning above and beyond all others, because it is trial without solace; the night without the pillar; the cloud without the bow—walking in darkness and can see no light:— with no further parley, close with the Divine overtures of pardon. If you have been—if you are, now "fighting against God," at once capitulate. Take up that apparently strangest of pleas of the man who had foully stained his crown and put a crash of discord into the music of his holy songs, "Pardon mine iniquity, for it is GREAT!" (Psalm 25:11). Make trial of the assurance, "I will heal their backsliding, I will love them freely: for Mine anger is turned away from him " (Hosea 14:4). "Seventy times seven " is Christ's measure of forgiveness for injuries. Will He make His own principle less in dealing with a fallen brother or a prodigal child? Will, in this respect, the servant be beneath his Lord? And though among your other misgivings may be the consciousness of moral inability—the tyranny of habit—a blunted conscience, a degraded will, a ruined, perverted nature, that seems incapable of assimilating with what is pure and lovely and of good report:—there is provision made here also "for them that are truly penitent." If you desire to do your Lord's will, there will be an unseen Presence, as with the old wrestler at Jabbok, to help you in your night of struggle. You will slowly but gradually emerge from the mists and fogs of the valley to breathe a bracing atmosphere, and even rise to heights of character and conduct you cannot now believe. It is strange, but true, that men are often most thoroughly purified in the crucible of their own sins. I am bold to say the collapse you mourn may make the rebound all the greater and more enduring, just as David's very transgression led him to cleave to God with greater tenacity of purpose; or as Peter's bold denials, selfish cowardice, and base ingratitude, coupled with the memory of the Divine forgiveness, went far to make him the hero he became, and transformed the pusillanimous craven into the man of action. Out of weakness he was made strong; able, after he was "converted" (turned from his own sin), to "strengthen his brethren." It is Olshausen's remark on this Apostle's penitence, " Only let the heart at bottom be sincere and true to God, and the soul may soon rise again from a very deep fall." "In our low degradation," says an able analyst of the human heart, " there remains something sacred, undefiled, the pledge and gift of our better nature; a germ of indestructible life, like the grains of wheat among the cerements of a mummy, surviving through 3000 years, which may be planted and live and grow again." (Fred. W. Robertson's Sermons, Second Series, p. 96.)

Rise to the dignity of your "better being." Relinquish the ignis-fatuus gleams of earth; turn from the bale-fires of sin, and pitch your tent without delay under the flame of the Pillar-cloud.

"Something ere the end, Some work of noble note may yet be done, 'Tis not too late to seek a newer world."

Leave, at once, the harbor with its treacherous reefs; and with canvas fresh-stretched, bear out to the freedom and safety of God's great "Pacific." You may have, and will have, your hours and moments of fearfulness and depression, aye of failure. "But He fainteth not, neither is weary." Unlike the fitfulness of your frames and feelings, the tide of His love ripples on for ever. Turn the poet's words, derived from one of Nature's best parables, into a prayer :—

"The vales shall laugh in flowers, the woods

Grow misty green with leafing buds,

And violets and wind-flowers sway

Against the throbbing heart of May.

"As Thou hast made Thy world without,

Make fair again my world within;

Shine through its lingering clouds of doubt,

Rebuke its haunting shapes of sin."

Whittier.

As David gathered material for his Temple from the spoil of the Philistines, so may you upbuild a new spiritual Temple over the conquest of your sins. You can, from a dead past, from hostile forces that were long against you, uprear a divine, spiritual sanctuary. Let the first of our motto-verses, specially, call you above all to Him, who with His own blood hath purchased this forgiveness for you. He, as the Image of the Invisible God, was the Revealer, not of the might and power and awfulness of Jehovah, but of His love, goodness, sympathy, compassion. The mighty heart-throb of the Brother on the Throne is still the same—" This Man receiveth sinners" The most battered flower may lift its head to the great Sun of Righteousness. The leper can still feel and own the marvel of His healing touch. The outcast, frowned on by a Pharisaic world with its conventional severities, may, in a figurative sense, creep as of old to kiss His feet and bathe them with tears. He was and is—it is His favorite name" and prerogative—the Savior of the lost. And if there be the aggravation in the sin you mourn, that it is the transgression, not of the unbeliever in the wilds of wickedness, but of the professing child of God—the sin of one who formerly knew the joys of salvation, but who has forfeited them—whose soul was once a consecrated shrine, but has Ichabod now inscribed above its portico; mournful (in one sense, indelible) as are the memories of your fall, take comfort, in the midst of remorse and sorrow, that it is not a lapse (it cannot be) which entails irreparable ruin. No, as an old writer says, "it is the fall of a child within the house," or, as the same idea is better still expressed by a great teacher of the age, "Thank God, it is a fall on deck, not overboard!" Christ, whether to the penitent transgressor or the penitent backslider, is the same receiver of sinners in His glorification as in His incarnation. He did not drop the robe at His ascension as Elijah did at his.

"This spotless robe the same appears,

When ruined nature sinks in years;

No spot can change its glorious hue,

The robe of Christ is ever new."

As God is even now, in the gleam of the wilderness symbol, saying, "Seek ye My face," let lip and heart respond, " Thy face, Lord, will I seek!" He will answer from heaven by fire (i Chrori. 21:26). This is the beacon-light He kindles for His pilgrims; this the song He puts in their lips:— "God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ." An author, familiar with the classic Tweed of Scotland, and the noble ruins on its "silvery stream," tells {Burning Bush, p. 36), that on one of the transept walls of the famous Abbey of Melrose, there are words still legibly engraven by some pious devotee of a long by-past age. They seem appropriate in closing this meditation :—" When Jesus Comes, The Shadow GOES." In the saying of " that same Jesus" quoted in our preface, in connection with the gigantic Temple-lamp kindled at the Feast of Tabernacles, He hushes the unrest of despair by the Revelation of Himself—the true Pillar of Fire in the pitchy gloom of the soul's deepest night:—

"I Am The Light Of The World: He That Followeth Me Shall Not Walk In Darkness, But Shall Have The Light Of Life."

THIRTEENTH DAY. VALLEY OF ACHOR.

"Gbe Xoro went before them bg nigbt in a pillar of fire."

"Therefore, behold, I will allure her, and bring her into the wilderness, and speak comfortably unto her. And I will give her her vineyards from thence, and the Valley of Achor for a door of hope: and she shall sing there, as in the days of her youth, and as in the day when she came up out of the land of Egpyt."—Hosea 2:14, 15. WORDS, surely, to be read under the gleam of the Pillar. The whole symbolism in the verses speaks of the Exodus and the desert wanderings. These completed, the Valley of Achor opened its gates of hope to the pilgrim host.

It is the God of the afflicted, the God of the mourner who here utters and unfolds His own mysterious dealings.

Perhaps what first strikes one in hearing or reading the passage is, how vividly the Divine Speaker brings Himself into the foreground in addressing the children of sorrow. He leads His spiritual Israel out to a wilderness of varied disciplinary experience. But He has no wish to conceal His hand. The judgments as well as the mercies are His own. All commentators have noted how with emphatic reiteration occurs this personal assurance, "/ will allure," "/ will bring," "/ will speak comfortably," "/will give vineyards," "/will open a door of hope."

There is nothing—no, nothing—in the hour of trial so infinitely comforting and sustaining as the thought dwelt upon more fully in a preceding meditation, that what we speak of as the contingencies of life, be they joyful or sorrowful, prosperous or adverse, are divinely appointed. Looked at by themselves they are often utterly perplexing. Yes, if we allow for a moment the suspicion of chance, or fate—the bewildering and depressing element of " second causes "—to enter into them; if we refuse to recognize the guiding Pillar throughout, then terribly is the torture of affliction aggravated and intensified.

But " the Lord reigneth." "The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away." I will go through the wilderness, I will confront its dreariness and weariness, its suffering and privation, conscious that the God of the Pillar-cloud goes before me. Other gospel comforts, greater far, are ours. But let the simple foundation-truth of solace be clung to with an ever-deepening trust:—" Who knoweth not in all these things that the hand of the Lord hath wrought this?"

Another gleam of the column—another gracious assurance in the verses is, that He who unfolds Himself here, as the bringer into the wilderness, reveals in its midst wondrous consolations. "Vineyards" and their vines, belong, as is well known, to fruitful valleys and sunny slopes, sharing these with the fig, pomegranate, and olive. Their "habitat" is associated with such names and such fertile places as Sibnah and Sorek, Engedi and Shechem, Hebron and Eshcol (" the valley of the cluster"). An abnormal growth is here promised in the sandy, waterless desert, where root and fruit would seem alike impossible. What does this singular figure mean, but that God. in the season and solitudes of trial, provides spiritual helps otherwise unknown, unrecognized, unlooked for? There are kindred passages of Isaiah where similar imagery is employed, "In the wilderness shall waters break forth, and streams in the desert. And the parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land springs of water." "Instead of the thorn shall come up the fir tree, and instead of the briar shall come up the myrtle tree " (Isaiah 35:6,7; 55:13). God, if we only trust Him, will transfigure our sorrows, bringing good out of evil, light out of darkness, order out of confusion—giving "beauty for ashes." When the Israelites approached their journey's end, there were hymns of thanksgiving raised, similar to those that had reverberated, at their outset, on the Red Sea shores. So, says our verses, will the Faithful Jehovah put into lips, now tremulous with emotion, similar minstrelsongs. "She shall sing in the days of her youth, and as in the day when she came up out of the land of Egypt."

This indeed cannot be believed or credited at the moment of trial. "No chastisement for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous." Yet " nevertheless, afterward, it yieldeth the peaceable fruits of righteousness."

Affliction is God's supreme vicegerent in the spiritual world. He sees it needful at times, as it is expressed in the immediately preceding context, "to destroy our vines and fig trees" (Hosea 2:12), that, bared of earthly attractions and allurements, we may be the readier to listen to His "summons to the wilderness" and reap a heavenly vintage of His better providing—the "new wine of the Kingdom."

Adversity nurtures the Christian graces as nothing else can, rekindling smoldering fires, rousing dormant energies.. "Suffer and be strong" is the pilgrim watchword. "Strength in weakness" is a true paradox. To quote the words of an able interpreter of nature, " Our ideal is rest and ease, Christ's ideal is service and suffering. The Alpine Soldanella, on a sunny pasture, among the bleating of sheep and a host of gay flowers, grows into a luxurious wealth of leaf and blossom, and looks a bloated, pampered lordling. Five thousand feet higher, midst ice and snow, biting glacier winds, moraine and gray shale, it is a hardy, bright blossomer, where no other plant could live, covering lonely spots with life and beauty in its humility and faithfulness, a bright witness to the Creator's presence and care. Which, think you, is the plant's ideal life?"

Let us yet further learn from our theme, that the best fruit of affliction is the more vivid and glorious unfolding of God Himself. He allures into the wilderness—away from other rival and competing fascinations, that the weaned soul, out of these solitudes of trial—chastened, subdued, humbled— apart from the gleam and glitter of earthly things, may have its affections centered on Himself alone. He removes from other claimants, that the glory of the Fiery Pillar may stand alone in its undivided radiance. The name of our volume reminds one of the Order of the Star of India. That insignia was created immediately after the dark and gloomy time of the East Indian mutiny. It consists of a double star of rays of gold and diamonds, inscribed with the appropriate motto, "Heaven's light our guide." The Jehovah of the Night Column is alike that Light and that Guide; and as He takes His Israel into the depths of the desert, He says, " I will go with them; I will give the promise of new and gracious revelations of My own presence and love in the hour of trial." He is alike " Morning and Evening Star" in the desert of sorrow. How many can testify " Thou hast been a strength to the poor, a strength to the needy in his distress, a refuge from the storm, a shadow from the heat." "As the shadow of a great rock in a weary land" (Isaiah 25:4; 32:2). Perhaps, we may add, more tender unfoldings are given of the exalted sympathy of Him who was "made perfect through suffering." He who is the true Vine most vividly manifests Himself when the branches are lopped, bleeding with the pruning knife or crushed in the wine press. It is the happy illustration of a writer—a remembrance common to all who have visited the Convent of San Marco in Florence, how Fra Angelico's pictures of Christ meet one in every niche and corner and hall of the tortuous building. So it is when traversing the corridors of affliction that we have the most frequent and most gladdening glimpses of the Man of Sorrows. Pictures of Jesus in His Divine Person, His own life and character; pictures of Bethany and Capernaum, of Nain and Olivet and Gethscmane, confront at every turn of the sacred story and calm us with strange soothing power. We can say, in the words of the Apostle most congenial in spirit with the gentle Florentine just spoken of, "We beheld His glory, the glory of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth" (John 1:14). It is Christ who mainly inspires the desert song of Hosea. The anthem, common to the whole Church of the ransomed, comes with special pathos and power addressed by the children to the Head of suffering humanity, " Unto Him that loved us, and washed us from our sins in His own blood."

"O Jesus," says Thomas a Kempis, in his Imitation, " Brightness of the Eternal glory, Comfort of the pilgrim soul, with Thee are my lips without a voice, and my very silence speaks to Thee; come to me, Thy poor servant, and make me glad."

Reader, has the Divine Chastener, by reason of these wilderness dealings, put this new song into your lips? The nightingale, as the name implies, is a song-bird of night; its melodies are loudest, sweetest, in twilight and darkness. Seek to honor God in your night-season by such tributes to His wisdom and faithfulness. Confident of the combined love and rectitude of His ways, let your sufferings and sorrows be sanctified and consecrated by submission to His will. Let your trials sob themselves away like the retiring thunder, disclosing, when the storm-cloud has passed, rifts of blue in the sky. Turn your Valleys of Achor, whatever they may be, into doors of hope. Silence even death-knells with the chime, " In the world to come, life everlasting!"

And if we can further prolong, it is only to recur to our opening lesson, but now with special reference to the closing hour of all. Death—our own death and the deaths of those we love—is the appointment of God. If He shows His guiding hand and sovereignty in all the varied events, the gleams and glooms of life, so, be assured, He decrees the time, the circumstances of the terminaing journey; when Jordan shall be reached; when the mission of the Fiery Pillar shall be ended; when its light shall be reflected for the last time in the dark waters, and Achor's rocky gates be un- barred! Oh, as not the hours of existence, so not the hour of death is left an "open question," haphazard, indetermined. It was He who gave the final summons to Israel's leader. It was He who selected the rocky cleft in Mount Nebo for His place of sepulture, and, under the desert's starry sky, composed His servant's limbs for their final rest. "David, by the will" (or, as that means, by the appointment) " of God, fell asleep and was laid to his fathers." We may appropriately remember the Prophet Elijah, as he took his last journey by the same Jordan which Israel crossed; the horses in the chariot of fire were prepared by Him whom he loved to call " the Living Jehovah." "Tarry here, I pray thee, for THE Lord hath sent me to Jordan" (2 Kings 2:6). Like an earlier patriarch " he was not, for God took him" (Genesis 5:24). By every death-bed, and by every grave, the words of assured comfort may be uttered, "He turneth man to destruction, and saith, Return, ye children of men!" "The Valley of Achor," the literal valley, as those who have seen it can testify (Wady Kelt), is itself a gloomy gorge, hemmed in by the most frowning rocks of Southern Palestine. But it is the entrance, the portal, from the Jordan Valley leading up to Jerusalem.

Death is that Achor. Gloomy in itself, rayless and sunless. But it is the way to the New Jerusalem, the true "City of the Great King." Each ransomed Israelite, emerging from the flood, conscious of an unseen but felt PREsENCE, may pass up through it with the song of hope and triumph— "O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory?" There is a beautiful myth in the martyrology of the first ages, that a young Roman heroine of the faith, with patrician blood in her veins (St. Christine), on being thrown by her persecutors into the Tiber, refused to sink in the turgid stream, and had her whole countenance haloed with light. "The Pillar of Fire," under whose gleam and glory she had lived, was true to the last. So will it be with the redeemed, "the suffering people of God," "whom He hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy." To re-quote a favorite text, "When thou passest throught he waters " (the swellings of Jordan) "I will be with thee!" The humblest of His Israel will then be strengthened to sing the song of faith, as the Pilhr is about to have its radiance merged in floods of heavenlylight. "Surely when the great waters overflow they shall not reach unto him. Thou art my hiding place; Thou wilt preserve me from trouble; Thou wilt compass me about with songs of deliverance " (Psalm 32:6, 7, R.V.).

"Yea, Though I Walk Through The Valley Of The Shadow Of Death, I Will Fear No Evil: For Thou Art With Me; Thy Rod And Thy Staff They Comfort Me."

FOURTEENTH DAY.

PARENTAL TENDERNESS. "Zbe Xoro went before them bg niabt in a pillar of Are."

"I will be a Father unto you."—2 Corinthians 6:18.

"As one whom his mother comforteth."—Isaiah 66:13.

"As an eagle stirreth up her nest, fluttereth over her young, spreadeth abroad her wings, taketh them, beareth them on her wings: so the Lord alone did lead him."—Deuteronomy 32:11, 12.

THREE gleams from the Pillar of Fire. A triple emblem and relationship of earth is taken to set forth the paternal love and tenderness of God :—dealing as a Father; comforting as a Mother; and then is added a figure very subordinate in itself, but still beautiful and touching—a figure surely appropriate here as associated with the "Wilderness of the Wandering" and the bird of its rocky heights.

The latter words, indeed, form a part of the great Leader's own retrospect of the Divine dealing. Jehovah is likened by him to the mother eagle teaching her young brood to fly; alluring them from their eyrie to try their wings, watching their first feeble efforts, hovering over them, ready, if need be, to dart underneath and bear them on her stronger pinions.

Our present brief meditation then, is Israel, and the Israel of the desert of all ages—subjects of a most gracious discipline and training: guided, supported, safeguarded, by the Eagle-wing of God.

God's Parental Love—the heavenly Fatherhood —is surely a theme of themes in the midst of trial. Earth's most sacred relation has its archetype in the Divine. A father's or mother's tenderest thoughts are centered in their weak and suffering child. The strong and vigorous of the family are left to care for themselves. It is the fragile flower, bent with hurricane and storm, that engrosses deepest affection and sympathy. So is it with our Father in heaven. It is the child of sorrow on whom He chiefly lavishes His regards. It was the "sick one " whom " Jesus loved." He took the blind man "by the hand." He was "moved with compassion" when He met the funeral crowd, and spoke words of solace and condolence to the bereft widow. At the sight of His own deeply afflicted mother He forgot for the moment His own pangs. His last deed and word was to dry her tears and provide for her a home (John 19:26). The Shepherd in the parable left the ninety and nine which were safely folded. He deemed it unnecessary to keep watch and ward over them. It was for the footsore and weary wanderer, away up amid the thorny brakes and jagged rocks, that he subjected Himself to toil and peril. "I will seek that which was lost, and bring again that which was driven away, and will bind up that which was broken, and will strengthen that which was sick…and they shall dwell safely in the wilderness, and sleep in the woods " (Ezekiel 34:16, 25).

Reader—in the midst, it may be, of mysterious dealings—dismissing all servile fear, delight to think of this (paradoxical as the words we have oft repeated in these pages may appear), "Whom the I^ord loveth He chasteneth." "What son is he whom the Father chasteneth not?" Chastisement —the family badge—the family pledge—the family privilege. Delight to dwell on that great, that greatest revelation of Christ. The saying may be taken as the brightest emanation from the Fiery Pillar :—" My Father and your Father; My God, and your God." My Father! It was the anodyne mixed in the Redeemer's own cup in Gethsemane. "This cup which My Father giveth Me to drink, shall I not drink it?" My Father! it is the one name which fetches back the prodigal and sings him home. So in seasons of severest discipline, submission is best attained when chastisement puts the yearning prayer into heart and lip, " I will arise and go to my Father." "Even so, Father." My Father! it is the key which unlocks many perplexities in life. My Father! it is the lullaby which smoothes the pillow of pain and soothes to sweetest rest. It is the requiem in the hour of death:—" Father, into Thy hands I commend My spirit." Here is a filial prayer: go forth to the desert with it on your lips; hear the response in your night of gloom and sadness:—

"The way is dark, my Father! Cloud on cloud

Is gathering thickly o'er my head, and loud

The thunders roar above me. See, I stand

Like one bewildered! Father, take my hand.

"The way is dark, my child! but leads to light;

I would not have thee always walk by sight; -

My dealings now thou canst not understand,

I meant it so; but I will take thy hand.

*****

"The way is long, my Father! and my soul

Longs for the rest and quiet of the goal.

While yet I journey through this weary land,

Keep me from murmuring; Father, take my hand.

"The way is long, my child! but it shall be

Not one step longer than is best for thee;

And thou shalt know at last, when thou shalt stand

Safe at the end, how I did take thy hand."

Reader, with the hand of a Father-God in yours, and yours in His, rejoice in the double assurance, alike under the shadow of the Pillar of cloud and the gleam of the Pillar of fire—" Thou compassest my path" (in the daytime), "and my lying down" (the vigils of night). Implicitly rely on the methods of His guidance. His one object in all is to bring you nearer Himself; and even if there be the removal of prized blessings, be assured there is a "needs-be." "You may accuse me," says the Duchesse de Gontaut, in her impressive Memoirs, "of making too light of all vicissitudes. You would be wrong. God has simply endowed me with the faculty of making the best of His severest inflictions: and I believe this to be the surest proof of real faith and the only way of living through life without repining." Oh for the trust and ready implicit submission of the Father of the Faithful, of whom it is said, "he rose up early in the morning "; as if eager to fulfill, be what it might, the bidding of his God! Instead of murmuring at the tardy lifting of the cross, seek to bear meekly your mystery of pain or of sorrow. We are apt to be hasty and impatient; to marvel at protracted suffering and baffled hopes. All God's dealings are slow. An earthly father's education of his child is necessarily gradual and prolonged. The child feels the tardiness. There are tears shed over hard tasks, and restiveness under what appears redundant toil and effort. But there is wise discipline in all these mental and moral struggles. Our Heavenly Father has the same end in view :—" He, for our profit:"—" Then do we with patience wait for it." Let every murmur be suppressed with the Master's words," If ye (earthly fathers), being evil (imperfect—often erring), know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give good things to them that ask Him?" (Matthew 7:11).

It is difficult—almost impossible—often to own all this—to see wisdom and love, "good things," in what seem strange, regarded as paternal dealings. But ever fall back on the truth that the best and noblest lives have been molded by affliction: the purest gold is brought forth from the fining process in the furnace. It was the alabaster vase in New Testament story, shivered and broken, that yielded precious ointment and diffused sweetest fragrance. How many of God's afflicted family can give the attestation :—It was trial that braced me for duty and service. Trial was the Campus martius where I was disciplined as a soldier in the use of spiritual weapons: taught how to put on " the whole armor of God " that I might be able to stand in the evil day, and having done all to stand. "It was good for me that I was so afflicted, for before I was afflicted I went astray, but now I keep Thy word!" The homestead has been pillaged, but the pillaging of the earthly nest has driven to the wing and to heavenly soarings. As it is the famine, and crippled resources, which form the main impelling motives of the emigrant to seek other climes and shores, so it is affliction which often colonizes the spiritual kingdom.

Trust parental love. In words suggested by one of our motto-symbols—

"Let Thy angel-wings be spread

O'er me; keep me close to Thee:

In the peace Thy love doth shed

Let me dwell eternally 1"

"What," says Bishop Hall, " if property, credit, health, friends, and relatives were all lost; thou hast a Father in heaven." And if these fatherly dealings are not at the time apparent—if the writings be now blotted, undecipherable; rather, if we in our nonage are only spelling out our Father's cabalistic words—"cryptograms"—with key and lexicon; the meaning strange :—the time will come, when all shall be made plain: erasures restored: lacuna supplied: involved passages interpreted. Many a needed translation of what has been long to us like a foreign language, will be rendered in "Heaven's Vernacular ": the motto on every title-page of the volumes - too often blurred and faded now, made luminous then— "Like As A Father Pitieth His Children." It is said of the seventy translators of the Old Testament into Greek (the Scptuagint), who were shut up to accomplish their task by one of the Ptolemies in the Island of Pharos (the Island associated with the famous lighthouse), that though each occupied a separate apartment, on issuing forth from their seclusion, the translations were to a word identical. It will be so in Heaven with God's translated Providences. However diverse may be the rendering at times here, there will be no divergence from the united testimony in that true " Land of Light "—" He hath done all things well" (Mark 7:37). "For we know in part, and we prophesy in part. But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away.…Now we see through a glass darkly; but then face to face" (1 Corinthians 13:9, 10, 12).

"Leaflets, now unpaged and scattered,

Time's great library receives;

When Eternity shall bind them,

Golden volumes we shall find them,

God's light falling on the leaves."

Yes, His ways may be past finding out; but confident that there are blessings in reversion, blessings in disguise, surrender yourself to His wiser, better guidance, with faith's impassioned prayer, " Bless me, even me also, O my Father!" The response will in due time come. It is already yours—the Pillar-flash lights up the barren wilderness :—

"I Will Be A Father Unto You, And Ye Shall Be My Sons And Daughters, Saith The Lord Almighty."

FIFTEENTH DAY. ABOUNDING GRACE

Gbe Xoro went before them bg nigbt in a pillar of fire."

"My grace is sufficient for thee: for My strength is made perfect in weakness."—2 Corinthians 12:9.

"And God is able to make all grace abound toward you; that ye, always having all sufficiency in all things, may abound to every good work."—2 Corinthians 9:8.

HAT could we do, in the midst of the thick

* » darkness of trial, but for the sustaining grace of Christ?

Like the great Apostle, who tells his experience in our first motto-verse, we plead with God for the removal of some affliction—"the thorn in the flesh sent to buffet us" (12:7). The prayer is answered, the succor is vouchsafed; but not in the way we asked for, or expected. The lacerating spine is still left—the trial or bereavement, whatever it be, is permitted to continue. The God, however, who sent the trial—yes, who sent the trial—for observe the special word of the Apostle, "there was given me a thorn in the flesh (5:7)—He who appointed the trial and still retains it, bestows what He deems preferable. He imparts compensating grace enabling us to endure the smart. To borrow an illustration from the name of our volume; the Israelites, soon after the commencement of the desert march, gave vent to bitter complaint. Their cry was to be delivered from a prolonged wilderness journey, to terminate days of scorching heat and nights of chill and darkness. 'Remove the thorn. Take us back, either to the waters and palm-groves of Egypt; or else, by some easier and shorter route, conduct us to the Land of Promise.' God answers their prayer: not as they would have desired. He continues the long, lonely, dreary road for the space of forty years. But He bestows the better equivalent, not for their good only, but to be a spiritual lesson for His Church in all coming ages. He gives the symbol and pledge of His own immediate presence. He spreads over their camp a canopy of cloud by day. He lights up a pillar of fire by night. He would teach them the far higher truth of realizing their dependence on Him. Weak, wavering, helpless in themselves, at the mercy of a thousand hostile forces and influences, (inhospitable nature combined with the assaults of desert foes,)—" He led forth His own people like sheep, and guided them in the wilderness like a flock. He commanded the skies above, and opened the doors of heaven. He rained down manna upon them to eat, and gave them of the corn of heaven.…Man did eat angels' food " (Psalm 78:52, 23, 24, 25, R.V.). In other words, the answer to their importunate pleadings was given in the language of our New Testament assurance, "My grace is sufficient for thee: for My strength is made perfect in weakness."

All this is suggestive, too, of severest affliction. The Apostle's emblem points to trial in its acutest form. Those who have traveled in Eastern lands know what "the thorn" is. Paul could fetch his figure from early memories by the banks of the Cydnus and the Tarsus Valley, as well as from many subsequent scenes of travel where the same tree was abundant. Very different is it from what is familiar to us at home. The spikes, at once larger and stronger, always recalled to the present writer what must have been the anguish of that thorny crown which circled the brow of the Man of Sorrows. Indeed the original word (cncoKoty) may, according to some, imply the intenser form of suffering which points to those stakes or iron prongs employed at times by barbarous conquerors to mangle the bodies of the vanquished (R.V. margin).

Afflicted one, your present trial may in no figurative, but very real sense, be one of exceptional severity: the iron may have entered into your soul. God's method of dealing is still the same as with St. Paul. The Shepherd of Israel, who " led Joseph like a flock," has some great end in view in the sending and continuance of the lacerating thorn. He designs life to be a scene and season of discipline. The word more than once translated in the Epistles "judgment " really means " training," "education." He is educating you in His school, as He did Israel under the sheen of the Pillar. His dealings—the acutest and most mysterious, are not arbitrary—capricious. He knows what is best. "The sufferings from which He could not deliver us He has transfigured for us. They are no longer penal, but remedial and penitential. Pain has become the chastisement of a Father who loves us: and Death the passage into His very presence" (Lyttletoti). The thorn which you would fain remove He sees meet to continue; the somber cloud in which He enfolds you, He delays or refuses to rim with the silver lining. "I will give you," says He, "better than the removal of either thorn or cloud: 'Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm the feeble knees. Say to them that are of a fearful heart, Be strong: fear not.…In the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the desert. And the parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land springs of water' (Isaiah 35:3, 4", 6, 7)." He knows you too well, He loves you too well, to give the nest without the thorn. That very discipline begets trust. Like Alpine travelers we grope our way tremulously along the yawning crevasse and rugged moraine, and through the misty darkness. But His purpose and design is that we may be led to cling only more unfalteringly to the hand of the wise, unerring Guide, and to feel that He is equal to all emergencies. The wilderness is dark: but the darkness only brings into brighter relief and setting the beacon-glory of the Pillar. The good poet, lately departed, seems, in his "Light to be felt," to write under its gleam :—

"We older children grope our way

From dark behind to dark before:

And only when our hands we lay,

Dear Lord, in Thine, the night is day,

And there is darkness nevermore.

"Reach downwards to the sunless days,

Where human guides are blind as we,

And faith is small and hope delays;

Take Thou the hands of prayer we raise,

And let us feel the Light of Thee J"

Bunyan's Pilgrim trembled as he passed with dripping garments through the Slough of Despond. But why his plight? It was because he saw not, or, for the moment refused to see and to use the stepping stones close by, provided by the King of the Way. So are we guilty too often of disregarding the stepping stones of God's Promises. We plunge, in our despondency, into "the miry clay," when He would set our feet upon the solid Rock.

Then, further, ponder our companion motto-verse with its wealth of provision and promise :—" all grace "—" abounding "—" all-sufficiency "—" sufficiency in all things." "What an illimitable balance," to use an old writer's comment on the words, "have we here, in the bank of heaven!" What a sure pledge that, as the Shepherd of Israel, He will keep sleepless "watch over the flock by night" ;— never leave the shorn lamb to the untempered winds of trial, or suffer His faithfulness to fail. He afflicts "in measure": not imposing on His people burdens too heavy to carry. "There hath no temptation taken you but such as man can bear: but God is Faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able; but will with the temptation make also the way of escape that ye may be able to endure it" (1 Corinthians 10:13, R.V.). "For myself," says one whose saintliness has stirred the pulses of the century, "now, at the end of a long life, I say from a full heart that God has never failed me; never disappointed me; has ever turned evil into good for me…and what He has been to me who have deserved His love so little, such He will be, I believe and know, to every one who does not repel Him, and turn from His pleadings."

Do not misinterpret or misunderstand the way in which the promised grace is given. It does not come with a torrent, in rain-floods or water-floods. Submission is evolved gradually. As with the prophet of old, we often cannot all at once recognize spiritual helps and forces, or we refuse to do so. The evening star glimmers at first imperceptibly in the twilight. Our fields, at first, only show patches of struggling verdure. So also with resignation, the pre-eminent grace in trial, "Nevertheless, afterward," (Heb. xii. u), like the after-glow of Egypt with which the Israelites were so familiar, is God's principle and method. Not all at once, with impetuous rush, is the stranded vessel moved. But as tidal wave after wave comes rolling in, the inert mass seems to wake up to the sound of many waters. Gradually the conquest is made; and in due time, with white wings outspread, she is once more buoyant on summer seas. Thus is it with the tidal wave of God's love in a time oi affliction. The agitated, shattered, stranded heart is gradually swayed by an influence above. In this, as in other things, "he that believeth shall not make haste."

Reader, God, in His infinite, mysterious wisdom, has seen meet to touch you in your tenderest part. The world is changed to you. You have, indeed, the same old environments. You feel yourself plodding on in the old mechanical way: life and its exacting duties cannot be evaded. But, Ichabod! its glory has departed. Yes, true, and yet not true. If your sun has gone down in the darkness of bereavement and death, that is the time for the lighting of the Pillar and for the bright unfoldings of grace.

111 lay, with heaven's cold night above,

Upon a couch of stone;

I said, 'O Lord, if Thou art love

Why am I left alone?'

And there I heard the answer fall,

'My love itself is all in all.'"

Sacred Songs.

His end is surely a noble and elevated one, "If so be that we suffer with Him, that we may be also glorified together" (Romans 8:17). "For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory." "Worketh." The great Workman with the tools of affliction sifts the quartz and debris and dross, in order to get the grains of gold which are subsequently fashioned into "the crown of glory that fadeth not away." Trial is the golden rod measuring the wall of the New Jerusalem. Trial is the golden gate leading into its eternal Temple. Trial is the means—the chief means— employed in assimilating the soul to God, and imprinting on it the Divine lineaments. "This honor have all His saints" (Psalm 149:9). "Most gladly, therefore," says St. Paul (2 Corinthians 12:9), speaking of his unremoved thorn, and borrowing also a metaphor from the desert Pillar with its cloudy curtain-canopy—" will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may (literally) spread its tabernacle over me " (R.V. margin).

"To be made with Thee one in spirit,

Is the boon that I lingering ask;

To have no bar 'twixt my soul and Thine;

My thoughts to echo Thy will Divine:

Myself Thy servant for any task."

L. Larcom.

"When He hath tried me I shall come forth as gold" (Job 23:10).

"but The God Of All Grace, Who Hath Called Us Unto Hls Eternal Glory By Christ Jesus, After That Ye Have Suffered A While, Make You Perfect, establish, Strengthen,

sETTLE YOU " (1 Peter 5:1o).

SIXTEENTH DAY,

ONLY BELIEVE.

'Gbe Xorfc went before them bg niflbt in a pillar of fire."

"Only believe."—Mark 5:36.

"Said I not unto thee, that, if thou wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God ?"—John 11:40.

OMFORTING and inspiring words these!

^--/ even though we may accept them in the shape of tender rebukes addressed to the smitten heart.

How apt are we, in dark dealings, to impeach and distrust the Divine faithfulness! To sight and sense present trial is often utterly baffling:—premature sickness, suffering, heartache, death. Reason stands aghast, as prop after prop on which we had leant gives way. We had heard of His "footsteps of love "; but " His way is in the sea, and His path in the great waters." Life, but yesterday, was bright alike with memories and anticipations; now a sudden fog "blurs the splendor of the sun." But yesterday it was a fair garden—an earthly Eden with bud and blossom and ripening fruit, cool alcove, and sheltering bower. Now it is like the garden of old, "within it a sepulcher" (John 19:41). A blight has passed over—flowers and gourd have withered. The Fiery Pillar is there, but its ruddy glow seems no longer the fire of mercy, but the scorching flame of judgment. "Men see not the bright light in the clouds." Leaving figure for reality, the experience of the pilgrim of sorrow is summed up and compressed in the dirge of the stricken patriarch—"All these things are against me."

"Only believe," says He who has sent this mysterious chastening. Cowering, like the faithless Elijah of old, in your cave of terror and darkness, you have at first eye and ear for nothing but the wind and the earthquake and the lightning-flash. You leave no room for the gracious sequel of "the still, small voice." That voice will, however, in due time, though it may not be exactly as you expected or wished, mingle its accents with the moanings of the storm :—yes, as surely in your case, as it reached the awestruck prophet of the desert after the wilderness-symbols of judgment had passed by. It may, I repeat, be deferred. Hour after hour of the night-watches may pass, and the Laureate's refrain may again and again be whispered with trembling lips, " He cometh not, she said!" The Bethany sisters may stand, in the extremity of their grief, from break of morn to dewy eve and pensive starlight, straining their eyes across to the far mountains of Perea; theirs the same impassioned monotone—one wailing in response to the other —

"She only said, the day is dreary,

He cometh not, she said!"

But the day was not to be dreary. The night was not to be weary. He was coming; He did come! And standing, as you may be doing, on the spot where the symbols of mortality brought tears to His eyes, He spake gentle accents of reproof— "Hush, doubting heart! Said I not unto thee that, if thou wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God?" There was no more dreariness now in that replenished home. The festal gathering and the alabaster box of precious nard testified to the gratitude felt by re-united hearts. The Pillar of Fire, whose glow seemed so lately to be removed for ever, was relighted. They believed and trusted, and worshiped and adored!

He has some infinite reason for all He does. Our true Joseph, when at times appearing to " speak harshly " to his brethren, does so in undertones of dissembled love. Shall we not trust "that same Jesus "? Pointing to the double motto-verse, may we not chide unbelief, and say," Remember the word unto Thy servant on which Thou hast caused me to hope"? Apparently frustrated schemes will yet be realized—apparently unanswered prayers will yet be answered, crosses will be exchanged for crowns. God's design and lesson in these sovereign dealings is to teach us patience. "Happiness," my friend, for the present is not—cannot be yours. But there is a better word, a better portion which is a personal possession in all sanctified sorrow. That abiding treasure is the higher one of blessedness. The former is casual, fitful, a thing of times and seasons, and fortunate coincidences. It may be on the wing today in the blue of heaven; it may be struggling low in the furrow tomorrow. Carlyle, in one of his aphorisms, thus briefly defines the difference between the two: "The first is often out of our reach; the second may always be present." "Blessed is the man that endureth temptation." "Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted." The lesson may be slowly learnt. It is like entering the gloom of an Egyptian temple: at first conscious only of darkness—a great shrine of silence and vacancy. But, by-and-by, as the eye recovers from the glare of outer noontide, the incised sculptures and hieroglyphics become visible, and, with an expert at our side, we can slowly interpret the latter. The buried history of ages and kings stands legibly before us. So God takes us from the fierce glare and dazzle of prosperity into "the Sanctuary of Sorrow." At first all is darkness. There may be mighty revelations all around, but the blinded eye fails to trace their outlines or decipher their legends. It is the prophet's experience—" walking in darkness and can see no light" (Isaiah 1. 10). Gradually in the deep, shaded recesses, first dimly, but soon with no uncertain disclosure, there comes forth, as of old at Belshazzar's feast, a "writing on the walls of the king's palace." The spiritual vision is opened, the inner eye is trained and purified to " see God." Like Job in his gloomy crypt of sorrow the afflicted one is led to say, " I have heard of Thee with the hearing of the ear, but now mine eye seeth Thee" (Job 42:5). "The strange lines," says a writer who uses the same emblem, " which seemed at first so meaningless, will group themselves into shapes and forms of purposeful design" (Illingworth). Thus will the words of the great Apostle have their best illustration within these gateways of trial, in the templehalls of suffering and pain and bereavement. "Our light affliction" will in due time have its "far more exceeding and eternal weight (and revelation) of glory." "In Thy light shall we see light."

Robert Browning, in the epilogue to his last poem—what may be regarded as his swan-song— his farewell utterance of religious hope—speaks of one

"Who never doubted clouds would break

Never dreamed, though right were

Worsted, wrong would triumph.

Held, we fall to rise, are baffled to fight better,

Sleep to wake."

We may quote an older, nobler minstrel still. Not long ago, the writer of these lines happened to attend the morning service—always impressive —in Canterbury Cathedral during a passing visit. The anthem for the day was a singularly pathetic balm-word for the broken spirit. Its "concord of sweet sounds" was like a serenade of ministering angels. Psalm 27:16 (the Prayer Book version): —" 0 tarry thou the Lord's leisure: be strong, and He shall comfort thine heart; and put thou thy trust in the Lord." What an " Eirenicon!" Oh for this tarrying spirit: the "only believe" of our mottoverse! Though it were but the lisping of a Scotch child—the best definition of faith I ever knew is in that child's simple quaint words—" Bide a wee, and dinna fear." "Bide," it is the term equivalent for " Wait on the Lord, and be of good courage."

And if that answer be not now vouchsafed the day is coming when it shall. In the retrospect from " the golden altar which is before the throne," glorified lips will rehearse the hallowed earthly words, giving them a heavenly and eternal meaning. "Said I not unto thee, if thou wouldest believe thou shouldest see?"

"Ye Now Therefore Have Sorrow: But I

WILL SEE YOU AGAIN, AND YOUR HEART SHALL REJOICE, AND YOUR JOY NO MAN TAKETH FROM YOU."

SEVENTEENTH DAY.

THE GREAT SYMPATHISER.

m

"Zbe Xorfc went before them bg nigbt in a pillar of fire."

'' For in that He Himself hath suffered being tempted, He is able to succor them that are tempted."—Hebrews 2:18. "I know their sorrows."—Exodus 3:7.

"In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world."—John 16:33.

JLjlrE suffered! Sorrowing one, what a gleam of the Pillar-cloud is this! He suffered! What are all thy most agonizing afflictions compared with what He endured for Thee!

He suffered—poverty, weariness, privation,hunger, thirst, grief, and the minor other ills that flesh is heir to. These, however, were but the surfaceheavings of the deeper depths of woe :—the assaults of men and the malignity of devils, cruel innuendoes, savage indignities; the loss or desertion of beloved friends; the treachery of trusted associates: that, too, in the case of a nature sensitively strung alike physically and spiritually. "Reproach," said He, "hath broken My heart."

He suffered more profoundly still. There was a mystery of anguish in Gethsemane which mortal tongue cannot tell, or imagination conceive. No wonder it is described with an emphasis belonging to no other—"THE Agony." Its undefined awfulness is worded in the Greek Litany by "Thy sufferings known and unknown." What mean these drops of blood oozing from His brow? What means the thrice-uttered prayer, in a paroxysm of woe, " Let this cup pass from Me "? (Matthew 26-39). What means the climax and consummation of all, when the very sun, in the words of Jeremy Taylor, "put on sackcloth, as if ashamed to confront the spectacle of its expiring Creator ": when the wail was evoked from parched and dying lips—the bitterest cry that ever ro^e from earth to heaven— "My God, My God, why hast Thou forsaken Me"?

He suffered. Of Him alone could the words be said—" All Thy waves and Thy billows have gone over me." Well may He have addressed the question, first to His disciples and then to His suffering children of all ages—" Can ye drink of the cup which I drink of, and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?" With an intense pathos of which the afflicted patriarch knew nothing, He could make the appeal to a whole world of weepers, "Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O ye, my friends, for the hand of God hath touched me!" (Job 19:21).

He suffered. But the lesson from these sufferings for you and for me is to watch how, in this Cimmerian gloom, shone the Pillar of Fire! See His perfect and profound resignation! He takes the cup, whatever that mystic emblem may mean, with trembling hand. Humanity in its weakness, rather humanity in its very strength, utters an "If it be possible"—the prayer of His suffering children still—" let it pass." But it is only for the moment. The bitter chalice is drained to the dregs. Three times He recedes from the edge of the abyss and its "horror of great darkness." But it is a momentary recoil—no more. He plunges in! Self-surrender, heroic obedience, unmurmuring submission can go no farther. His own will is now, as ever, coincident with the Divine—" Not as I will, but as Thou wilt." He ceases not in the prolonged conflict till He could utter the cry waited for by all time, and which sends its prolonged echoes through eternity—" It is finished!"

Though we have selected the closing hour of all, He was, during the entire period of His earthly life, "the Faithful and True Martyr" (Revelation 1:5). Well may a writer speak of "the fascination of that mournful life-story, so infinite in its pathos and so profound in its wisdom, the most touching of idylls and the most impressive of tragedies…the loving and gracious Man of Sorrows, listening to every plaint of weakness and helping every troubled heart to bear its burden, even while on His own there rested the burden of a world's salvation" {Present Day Religion, p. 201).

Reader, I know not what the circumstances of your suffering are. More than probable they may be identical in kind, though not in degree, with those of your suffering Lord.

(1) They may be physical. As was noted at greater length in a previous chapter, it is only those conversant with a couch of lingering pain who can testify to the reality. The sudden close of the windows, long open to the cheering light of day; the drawn blinds; the tossing from side to side in the hopeless battle with wakefulness—opiates giving, at the best, transient moments of relief—only to renew the pitiless struggle: " Saying in the morning, 'Would God it were evening!' and in the evening, 'Would God it were morning!'" That pain—that physical pain—on the Cross, He suffered! There were, as I have just said, other reasons of infinitely more tremendous significance which convulsed His soul. But one reason for His being subjected to the pangs of an agonized body, undoubtedly was, that He might impart to every child of anguish His own experimental exalted sympathy. In our hours of prostration, weakness, and weariness—when in their prolonged vigils we may be tempted at times " to faint when we are rebuked of Him," the whisper trembling on parched lips—" Why all this discipline of pain? Why this cruel cross to bear? Where is the wisdom? Where is the love?"—we may think of a Divine fellow-sufferer subjected without any mitigation—(for the very anodyne offered was refused)—to the intensest bodily torture. "Consider Him that endured…lest ye be weary and faint in your minds" (Hebrews 12:3).

(2) Your sufferings may be mental. Harassment, unkindness, ingratitude, the barbed shafts of malice and slander, all the more grievous to bear if sent winged from the quiver of a friend. It may be anxiety about a beloved relative, the subject of slow disease, around whose couch the too ominous shadows are gathering :—" life balanced in a breath." It may be the agony of bereavement, when the long alternations of hope and fear have ended—the vacant niche in your heart—the vacant chair in your home—the cherished name on the gravestone. Or, it may be, in your own case, wasting disease too surely pointing to the fatal termination—this involving the severance of holiest ties, and leaving dear ones solitary and alone to do battle with adversity. These and many such, though varying in their outer form and complexion, your great suffering Master knew in their fullest measure. Yes, inclusive of the last-mentioned; when, Himself racked in agony, He had that agony intensified by the sight of a fond mother jostled amid the crowd that surged around, and made sport of His dying moments; the sword too truly piercing her own heart, as the nails were lacerating the Body at whose feet she crouched.

The refrain of the present meditation is, He suffered; and because He suffered, says the Apostle in our motto-verse, " He is able to succor." We have quoted more than once, as suggested by the name of this book, the words which emanated from the Jehovah of the Pillar-cloud, the opening syllables in that drama of the Exodus and the desert; let them be repeated in their most appropriate form here: "I have seen, I have seen the affliction of My people, for I know their sorrows." His whole life, from Bethlehem's manger to Calvary's cross, formed a pathetic comment and fulfillment. He knew—He knows, every heart-throb of His suffering Israel in every age. He is no god or demi-god of Pagan mythology, who lives in unsympathetic isolation amid the clouds of Olympus, all in ignorance of the travail of a sin-stricken, woe-worn world. From deepest experience He is cognisant of every pang that rends the soul. If one of earth's kingdoms is the Kingdom of Sorrow, He is its King. The crown on His head was a crown of thorns, and, being so, the scepter in His hand is the scepter of kingly sympathy. It is recorded of Alexander the Great, that he touched with his crown a wounded soldier in the ranks, and that at the touch there were the tinglings of new life. It is so in a diviner, heavenly sense. Christ touches our wounds with His double crown—the crown of thorns as the Human Sympathiser, and the crown of glory as Head over all. It is the thorn-crown which forms the special theme of our present meditation. I always like the conjunction of the two clauses in the familiar Litany—" Pitifully behold the sorrows of our hearts.…O Son of David, have mercy upon us!" It was the Lord of the Pillar-cloud, the God-Man, of whom it is touchingly said, " So He was their Savior. In all their afflictions He was afflicted, and the angel of His presence saved them: in His love and in His pity He redeemed them, and He bare them, and carried them all the days of old " (Isaiah 63:8, 9). "It is Christ alone," beautifully says Pere Didon, in his Life of Jesus, " who teaches the joy of suffering, because it is He alone who pours into the soul a Divine life which no pain can overwhelm; which trial only strengthens, and which can despise death, because it permits us to face it with the fullness of immortal hope."

My brother, trust this Great Sympathiser, "who, for the joy that was set before Him, endured the Cross!' Conquer as He conquered, by a noble submission and self-surrender to the will of your Father in heaven. While you take trial for granted as a part of His appointed discipline, hear the Lord of sorrow encouraging you from His own example and victory :—" In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world." We read of Him that " being in an agony He prayed the more earnestly." "Who in the days of His flesh, when He had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto Him that was able to save Him from death, and was heard (as it has been rendered) because of His reverent submission " (Hebrews 5:7). Is not that saying impressive—" He became obedient unto death "? It was a gradual effort requiring Divine . But it was given, and the triumph was assured. Let this, too, afflicted one, be the sanctified result, in your case, of the Cup which the same Father has put into your hands. "Be more courageous," are the words of St. Francis de Sales, "in your trials, cherish them carefully, and thank God for vouchsafing to give you ever so small a share in His dear Son's cross."

"Rejoice Inasmuch As Ye Are Partakers Of Christ's Sufferings; That When His Glory Shall Be Revealed, Ye May Be Glad Also With Exceeding Joy."

EIGHTEENTH DAY.

PILGRIMS AND STRANGERS. "Zbe Xoro went before them bg niflbt in a pillar of fire."

"And confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth.…But now they desire a better country, that is, an heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God: for He hath prepared for them a City."—Hebrews 11:13, 16.

THOUGH really spoken of the older patriarchs these verses would seem as if uttered under the gleam of the Pillar-cloud. They might have formed the refrain in the Song of Israel for forty years in their desert.

"Pilgrims and strangers on the earth!" This opening clause, applicable to believers in all ages, is no morbid sentiment. The Christian is not a pessimist. God's child, pilgrim and wayfarer though he be, has bright experiences in "the house of his pilgrimage." He comes to Zion, not with dirges, but with songs (Isaiah 35:10). He is feelingly alive to the wealth of loveliness in the surrounding world. It belies the name often given to it of "Valley of Tears." None more than he, none so truly as he, in the contemplation of the glowing firmament by day and the silver galaxy by night,

"Can lift to Heaven an unpresumptuous eye,

And smiling say, My Father made them all."

And yet it is not inconsistency to affirm—it would be vain to deny, that in the hour of sorrow all undergoes a gloomy transformation. Affliction has its exceptional teachings. God's fair earth' then seen through tearful eyes, is draped in sadness. It wears not bridal attire, but funeral weed. And the lesson so reluctantly listened to in the day of prosperity, with its sunshine, is urged with irresistible power on the broken heart—" I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner as all my fathers were!" The harp of a thousand strings is rendered tuneless :—the light of life goes out, like the stars fading from the sky. Job was no born hypochondriac. On the contrary, his heart, in its normal condition, was full of brightness and thankfulness. Read his pathetic story. No eye had a keener relish for the grand and beautiful in nature. He revels in "the philosophy of the seasons." The keener were his sympathies, that he saw God's footsteps and felt God's touch, in all. But can we wonder that this "Prince of the East," dowered with the three best gifts—goodness, intellect, and piety, when stricken in soul and body, realized as he had never done before, that Time was "a walking shadow"; and that he is heard wailing out the monotone, " Man that is born of a woman is of few days and full of trouble. He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down: he fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not" (Job 14:1:2). In a word, "he confessed that he was a stranger and pilgrim on the earth."

The time indeed (and thank God for it) will come, must come, when the cloud is lifted; when you will even feel the reviving influences of nature and yield to the claim and attraction of human interests. But meanwhile, all is "sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought." The way cannot be traversed with gleaming eye and elastic step when the staff is broken and the beautiful rod.

It is, therefore, in no spirit of murmuring or rebellion, that we repeat the first entry in this meditation. Let us rather look at it as lighted up by the sanctity of the Pillar of Fire. Reader, in that lurid flame, God—the God who has seen meet severely to chasten—would lead you, it may be through tears of anguish and a rifled home, to confess your homelessness. But it would be a poor, unworthy result of family trial, were it simply to discover the blight that has passed over your being and surroundings. The passage which forms our theme does not confine itself to gazing on the cloud. It has a glorious counterpart. There is a rift in the sky, disclosing the blue eternities behind and beyond. The down-cast pilgrim when he most deeply realizes that he is but a pilgrim, is inspired with noble resolves — stimulated with brighter prospects. The Song of the Night merges into a Song of Eternal Day. It is the grandest possible result of trial:—" But NOW (the sequence of affliction) they desire a better country, that is, an heavenly"

Oh most blessed fruit and result of the Divine dealings! The sorrowing present not obscuring or shrouding, but only lending brightness and glory to the future! The wear and tear of life—many petty cares it may be, wedded with far deeper sorrows—unspoken trials, anxieties, and responsibilities previously unknown. "Hill Difficulties," which before had their arbors and hospices, now one toilsome ascent; rugged steep and treacherous hollow, bewildering mist and storm-cloud. It was but recently balmy seas, now it is winter with fog and snowstorm, needing anxious pilotage. Worst and saddest of all, the oppressive silence in the dark empty halls of grief. "One there is not," rings dolefully at every turn. What you thought to be a fixed star is changed into meteor-gleam, vanished as a morning cloud, or like the bubble on the ocean. Yes, let none cynically deny you your newly-appropriated name, " Pilgrims and strangers." They can see no wilderness, because they have still their unshattered tents and bivouac fires, and undiminished circle to surround them. Can it be wondered at that the song of their encampment can get no response in yours?

Turn, however, now, your contemplation to the obverse side. If bereavement and death have read their own impressive homily, there is a contrasted view to those afflictions which "for the present are not joyous but grievous." God's end and the soul's good is attained, if the breaking up of the temporary desert home quickens the onward march; lip and heart attuned to the resolve, "Now we desire a better country, that is, an heavenly!" But for that trial, you might have forgotten that the wilderness was not your final rest or portion. You might otherwise have permitted fond fibers of affection to root you to earth. You might have continued in the pursuit of tinted air-bubbles ;— like one of Bunyan's well-known characters in his dream, preferring feathers and dust to the beckoning angel and the gleaming crown—dimming your eye to " the Better Country."

God has, in mercy, shut out the garish noontide, and lighted up His own fiery column with its own golden splendor. He has illuminated it with the words which you can turn, in all time to come, into a pilgrim chant—a "song of degrees," like one of those used by the Jews in going up to their greatest Feast," God is not ashamed to be called their God, for He hath prepared for them a city!' Your affliction has brought Heaven nearer. It has served to wean from the too alluring fascinations of the present. It has forged adamantine chains to link you to the unseen and eternal. If some who read these pages can tell of successive bereavements— they have peopled the once strange, silent, solitary Land with living souls. Angels and glorified spirits seem to wave signals of welcome. It has made the other world more of a home than this :—

"We dream awhile that Home is Heaven;

We learn at last that Heaven is Home."

Happy those who can thus conjoin the two correlated Bible sentences, "Pilgrims and strangers on the earth," "Our Citizenship is in Heaven" (Philippians 3:20); who can listen under desert skies to words of heart-cheer, "Upwards, Onwards, Heavenwards, Homewards!" I like the words in the Revised Version of 2 Corinthians 5:8, "We are of good courage, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body, and to be at Iwnie with the Lord."

In heathen mythology (the legend is one of the oldest of Greek antiquity), Prometheus, represented by ^Eschylus "as an immortal god and friend of the human race—willing to sacrifice himself for their salvation," was said to bring down two gifts from heaven—viz., Fire and Hope. In an infinitely more real sense, as our double motto-verse unfolds, the true Prometheus—the Son of the Highest— Himself the Divine Sacrifice, "brought down FlRE for the Pillar-cloud in the night of earth." Along with this He has brought HOPE, "the hope full of immortality,"—the promised bliss of that world where darkness is changed to light and hope to full fruition:—where the winter is for ever past, the rain over and gone, nothing left but eternal summer for the soul.

Pilgrim of sorrow, recognize your afflictions to be ladder-steps to help you in reaching the Gate of the City. It was the beautiful saying of young Prince Otto of Wied, brother to the Queen of Roumania, who endured with such heroic Christian fortitude—" More than we can bear is not sent us; and when we can bear no longer, the end comes, and we are blessed in heaven " {Life of Carmen Sylva, p. 62). Yes, "more than we can bear is not sent us ": Whatever is sent, in the way of pain and suffering and bereavement, is God's needed discipline—God's best discipline. The gifts and graces of the Christian have ever been nurtured thereby. To borrow the words of a friend, "In the garden of sorrow the soul's loveliest passion-flowers reach their ideal perfection." The noblest heroes and heroines of the Faith have been braced by " great tribulation." It is often the biuiscd reeds the Almighty converts into golden arrows for His quiver.

Go, then, up and on through the wilderness leaning on your Beloved. Keep in sight the guiding night Pillar. Be loyal to God, as a son whom He chastencth, and He will be Faithful to the resigned and trusting heart. So may it be said of you, day by day, and never more than on the last day of all—life's vesper bell ringing the words,—

"There Is Sprung Up A Light For The Righteous, And Joyful Gladness For Such As Are True-hearted."

NINETEENTH DAY.

LIGHT ON THE MORROW.

"XLbe Xoro went before them bg nigbt in a pillar of fire."

"Take therefore no thought for the morrow."—St. Matthew 6:34. "Commit thy way unto the Lord."—Psalm 37:5.

DOUBLE voice from the Pillar-cloud, in

the midst of your night of sorrow. Like most trials, I shall suppose that the present one has suddenly overtaken you. An unexpected bolt has descended; some silver chord has suddenly been loosed; some golden bowl irreparably broken. You can say of your grief as a true sufferer has simply described it: "It lies down with us at night It rises with us in the morning." You feel at once out on the stormy billows, away from the harbor where all so lately was peace. You ask, in your first hour of bewilderment, can it really be so; that the fond vision of years has departed like a scroll; the favorite life-chord snapped ?" Suddenly are my tents spoiled and my curtains in a moment:" (Jeremiah 4:20)—those gone in the twinkling of an eye for "the for ever of time," who, using the words of a distinguished scholar, "in old days it was strength to be with, and for the future it will be strength to remember" (Westcott). But it is, alas! this very future which is now, all unexpectedly, the perplexing and pathetic anticipation. Must the light of the Pillarcloud here be sought for in vain? With these dense impalpable shadows projected without warning on your path, is your only outlook, voiceless solitude—the gloom of the desert by night or its mocking mirage by day; beguiling you into false confidences and disappointing hopes?

"Leave," says Christ, "that morrow with Me." "Take no thought," no needless, over-anxious thought, as the word means, about it. That morrow, under My hand, will reveal itself. Instead of trying vainly in this " hurricane eclipse " to forecast the dusty, travel-stained roads of life— "Commit thy way unto the Lord; trust also in Him; and He shall bring it to pass. And He shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday. Rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for Him " (Psalm xxxvii. S. 6, 7)

Reader, do not suppose that nervous, anxious apprehensions about the future, or wonderment at the mysterious dealings of God are in your case exceptional. You remember, how, in a different form, they were experienced and avowed by the typical "Pilgrims of the Night,"—the Hebrew host at the very commencement of their Exodus. Not only was it with them mystery and enigma, but the almost certainty of disaster, appalling in its suddenness, " They are entangled in the land, the wilderness hath shut them in!" "Surely Thou didst set them in slippery places: Thou castedst them down into destruction. How are they brought into desolation, as in a moment! They are utterly consumed with terrors" (Psalm 73:18, 19). Even their Faithful commander was terror-struck. The column of flame was deflected from what appeared the right way—leading to panic and peril—the barrier mountains behind, and the raging sea in front. There was nothing but misgiving for the present, and tremulousness for the future. Falling prone to the ground, Moses wails out his plaint and remonstrance. But the God of the covenant host knew better. Accordingly, He answers only in words of righteous rebuke, "Why liest thou on thy face? Speak unto the children of Israel that they go forward." "Commit," as if He said, "that unknown road and unrevealed morrow to Me; I the Lord will go before you; I the God of Israel will be your rereward." "Forward," was the word of command, as the no longer skeptic leader anew grasped his rod and rose in the might of Jehovah. If not then, the day would come in long after years, when the memorial song would be sung— "He led them forth by the right way, that they might go to a city of habitation. Oh that men would praise the Lord for His goodness, and for His wonderful works to the children of men" (Psalm 107:7, 8).

Confide in that same assurance. The morrow may doubtless to you, too, be all perplexity. Like a group of desert travelers of a future age—like the Magi, you may seem suddenly to have lost your guiding star. But, Jehovah-Jireh {the Lord will provide). Seek to rise above these unworthy morbid forebodings. It is the nature of faith—the triumph of faith—to overcome difficulties, to feel assured that in due time the gloomiest cloud will be braided with silver linings.

The disciples at the scene of Transfiguration at first "feared to enter the cloud? Ere long when they passed through its enfoldings, the gloom and mystery were dispelled. "They looked unto Him and were lightened," for " His face did shine as the Sun." His feet, as they were in an after day seen in Patmos by one of those privileged spectators, would seem " like pillars of fire!' That glimpse of transfigured glory prepared them for the great impending suffering in Gethsemane and Calvary. They were braced under the shadow of the cloud for the fiery trials that were so soon to try them.

Enter on your veiled future in a similar spirit .

"Stoop not for ever over sorrow's loom

On webs of drear unprofitable gloom,

Behold the text, writ with the Sun's last hand

In crimson cipher on the golden sky,

Proclaiming joyous morrow to the land:

Then let the soul take comfort."

After-Glow.

God gives you in our older type of the Pillar, a similar pledge of safety and rest. He can bring good out of evil, and light out of darkness, and order out of confusion. He can transform the wilderness into an oasis fringed with palms and musical with fountains :—thus fulfilling in a better than its literal sense His own promise, "The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them, and the desert shall rejoice and blossom as the rose."

One of the sweetest of our religious poets would almost seem to have had that " Light of fire" in view, as the lines were written:—

"For one thing only, Lord, dear Lord, I plead,

Lead me aright

Though strength should falter, and though heart

should bleed,

Through peace to light.

I do not ask my cross to understand,

My way to see,—

Better in darkness just to feel Thy hand,

And follow Thee."

How blessed, we may well add, that the future, so well known to Him, is unknown to us! What a pall would be cast on many a joyous life, had the power been given (so mercifully witholden) of forecasting it! We are thus spared years of anticipated misery. Never was there a more gracious appointment and provision than that spoken of by St. James, "Ye know not what shall be on the morrow."

"Accept the present with a thankful heart,

Nor listen to the tramp of troublous years

Remembered joy shall soothe, when sorrow's smart

Turns thy sweet past to tears."

The best and highest thought of all is, that our

"destinies,"—our present,-—and above all, our future

and its unborn hours are " God-appointed." When

from His lips the question is propounded, "Is it

well with thee?" (that question to which the

faithless heart is ever tempted to give an evasive

answer)—be it yours, confident in the combined

wisdom and love of your Leader, to respond, " It

is well! "-—glorifying Him by meek submission

and Faithful following. "Shall we presumptuously

cross His path? or shall we, like well disciplined

soldiers, keep our post and watch for the signals?"

{Newman). With the change of a word, let us

strive to say,—

"I do not ask to see

The unveiling of Thy purpose, or the shining

Of future light on mysteries untwining,

Thy promise-roll is all my own,

Thy Pillar enough for me."

Chequered though your way may be, He will be at every turning—soothing adversity—tempering prosperity. And when that morrow shall itself come to an end, death will be but as a short summer's night pearled with clouds, a momentary overcasting of the heavens—no more. Life's retrospect will evoke the Angel-Song of Bethlehem, "Glory to God!" Then the light, not of wilderness pillar, but of unsetting suns, "the light that never was on land or sea," will illuminate an endless morrow.

With this glorious reversion, mourner, you may now sing, even it may be amid present blinding grief, one of the inspired " restful rhythms,"—

"nevertheless I Am Continually With Thee: Thou Hast Holden Me By My Right Hand. Thou Shalt Guide Me With Thy Counsel, And Afterward Receive Me To

GLORY!"

TWENTIETH DAY.

THE POWER OF PRAYER.

"Why sayest thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Israel, My way is hid from the Lord, and my judgment is passed over from my God. Hast thou not known? hast thou not heard, that the Everlasting God, the Lord, the Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary?"—Isaiah 40:27, 28.

"The Lord is good unto them that wait for Him, to the soul that seeketh Him."—Lamentations 3:25.

Y way is hid from the Lord, and my judg

ment is passed over from my God" Strong, impassioned as are these words, how truthfully they interpret the thoughts of many a sorrowing heart! Yes, of many a Christian heart. For, observe, the tender .reproach and expostulation is not addressed to the unbeliever, with his skeptic devil-born doubts; but to God's own covenant people—" Jacob,"—" Israel." Disguise it as we may, in the depths of profound grief, and despite of all accepted dogmas and creeds, such reflections will obtrude themselves. "Has not God forgotten me?" 'I adore Him and cling to Him as my Heavenly Father—it is the assurance I shall be the last to surrender. But why this terrible trial? Where are any footprints of His love? I fail to hear even the faintest tones of the voice from the cloudy Pillar. Life is bereft of its beauty and brightness, and I am called to tread the dreary corridors of death, wedded to sepulchral silence. My prayers are apparently unheard. They only seem to lead from darkness to darkness. Surely He is, like Baal, asleep, leaving me to cry unsuccoured in the lonely desert—" My soul thirsteth for Thee, in a dry and weary land, where no water is'" (Psalm 63:1, R.V.). The words of In Memoriam seem to speak of me—

"They built him fanes of fruitless prayer."

In vain I make my appeal to the God of the Fiery Column. In vain I plead the memories of the old pilgrim march—" Awake, awake, put on strength, O arm of the Lord!…Art thou not it which drieth up the sea, the waters of the great deep, that made the depths of the sea a way for the ransomed to pass over?" (Isaiah 51:9, 11). I call in the anguish and desertion of despair, " Keep not Thou silence, O God. Hold not Thy peace, and be not still, O God!" (Psalm 83:1).'

These, sorrowing one, in your seasons of despondency—it may be even now—are the tones of your muffled harp. Like the Syrophenician woman you eagerly follow the steps of the Great Helper— seeking deliverance from Him who alone can give it. You can, as little as she did, understand the strange silence, the unheeded appeal, the apparent repulse. Is this like—is it not rather sadly unlike His loving heart ?" Surely my way is hid from the Lord,"—might well have been her agonizing soliloquy. But the tide of Divine-human sympathy was only for the time pent up and restrained. The sluices were ere long withdrawn;—her trust was commended; her child restored. The word of the Gracious Consoler was a bequest for the importunate of all ages, "O woman, great is thy faith; be it unto thee even as thou wilt." Call to remembrance, child of affliction, a higher than any mere human experience. Christ could Himself enter into the mystery—shall I say, the terribleness of apparently unheard and unsuccoured prayer. Read that psalm so unquestionably His own; the psalm of the Eloi-cry, "My God, My God, why hast Thou forsaken Me?" His tearful pleadings were, " Why art Thou so far from the words of My roaring? O My God, I cry unto Thee in the daytime, but Thou hearest not, and in the night season and I am not silent!" What is His solace and balmword in that hour of seeming desolation? He rests contented with the assurance, "But Thou art Holy" (Psalm 22:3). Think, in the midst of your crisis-hours with their silences of grief, how He traversed this, as well as other solitudes—how He drank this, as well as other sorrow-brooks by the way (Psalm Exodus 7). Under the shade of these moonlit olives, the Master is giving utterance to importunate pleadings. But the cup is not suffered to pass, and that, too, though "being in an agony, He prayed the more earnestly," "But, Thou art Holy" He will not surrender His confidence in God—in His Heavenly Father's righteousness, faithfulness, and truth. At last, light breaks through the darkness; and ere the Psalm of the Agony closes, He can tell the joyful experience, imparting help and hope and courage to all His people in their hours of misgiving—"Thou hast heard Me from the horns of the unicorns.…They shall praise the Lord that seek Him. Your heart shall live for ever" (Psalm 22:21, 26). The pathway of thorns is changed into that of triumph.

Take courage from the example and experience of the Great Sufferer. Plead the promise of this same praying Savior, whose heart vibrates and throbs on the throne to the woes of humanity:— "Verily, verily I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in My name He will give it you." Only adding, as He did, "Nevertheless not as I will, but as Thou wilt."

The great lesson He would teach His children is " Be patient." Let faith rise above the obscurations of sight and sense. This was the philosophy of affliction manifested in the case of the smitten patriarch of Uz. "Behold we count them happy which endure. Ye have heard of the patience of Job, and have seen the end of the Lord; that the Lord is very pitiful and of tender mercy" (James 5:11). In the case of this much tried servant, the mysterious dealings came at last to be vindicated; and in anticipation he sang the song of victory on his bed of ashes—"Though He slay me yet will I trust in Him." "For I know that my Redeemer liveth!"

Seek to imitate this creed of the Pilgrim Father. Chide your buffeted and baffled faith with the verse which heads this meditation, " Why sayest thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Israel?" "Israel!" that is the tenderest word in the remonstrance, for it again recalls the wrestler in Peniel—the conflict all night long, which left a struggling wayfarer the triumphant "Soldier of God!" Hope on; trust on; fight on; pray on. Feel the calm assurance that "the prayer of faith shall save," and that, too, despite of thwarted purposes and apparently unanswered requests. I note these words in the current pages of a Magazine. They simply but truthfully describe the sorrowful—the at times despairing yearnings of one who feels the mystery of unsuccoured pleadings; but who feels also, that these "silences," rightly understood, have deep meanings, if not in most cases triumphant issues— and alluring, at all events, to higher hopes, even though the way lead through shadow and darkness,—

"Will not the baffled soul, dismayed,

Fall prostrate in the dust?

The expectant child-like heart, afraid,

Forget its early trust?

"' They shall not be ashamed who wait,'

Are words that cannot fail.

Blessed who linger at the gate

Until their suit prevail.

• • » • •

"Forthwith, transfigured, smiles each sense

O'er which the darkness fell;

The notes of praise swell clear and keen,—

'He doeth all things well.'"

They are an echo of the more familiar words of the Laureate,—

"The world's great Altar-Stairs,

Which slope through darkness up to Coi"

Not a few, doubtless, have personally experienced —more likely have witnessed in others such notable results and triumphs. One aged mother in Israel, well known to the writer, never ceased for years, undeterred by adverse, almost hopeless influences, to plead, and plead, and plead again—rising from her bed at night, in the darkness, to pursue her importunate suit. She refused to surrender the conviction that the answer would come. Though it tarried, she "waited for it." Come it did, in time to gladden her waning existence and to enable her on her own death-bed—"the sleep of the beloved"—to adore her Faithful God as the Hearer and Answerer of prayer. Her experience for years might well have been that of our verse, "My way is hid from the Lord, and my judgment is passed over from my God." But she had "known and heard," and testified—that "the everlasting God (the God of Eternity), the Lord, the Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary."

Reader, look and long for the assured gleams of this Pillar of Fire. "The Lord is good unto them that wait for Him, to the soul that seeketh Him." He never said unto any of the seed of Jacob, "Seek ye My face in vain." Three times Christ prayed the prayer of His agony before He was heard. Three times St. Paul prayed the prayer for the removal of the buffeting thorn before he was heard. In both cases, at last, succor was given, not in the way it was asked for (by removal), but an angel was sent from heaven to strengthen. You may be now like the Apostle on another occasion, in the dungeons of Philippi: your soul under scourging; your feet fast in the stocks :— the plaintive dirge on your lips, "Where is now my God?" But, as with him, "at midnight," the darkest hour of all, deliverance—not perhaps as you expect it, will be vouchsafed. The gracious though deferred accents will be heard—" Thou calledst me in troubles, and I delivered thee: and heard thee what time as the storm fell upon thee" (Psalm 81:7, Prayer Book version). Yes, following the Pillar—peering for its light in the surrounding darkness, sooner or later the experience and the prayer of the desert Psalm will be your own: "They cried unto the Lord in their trouble, and He saved them out of their distresses. He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and brake their bands in sunder. Oh, that men would praise the Lord for His goodness, and for His wonderful works to the children of men!"

"O House Of Jacob, Come Ye And Let Us

WALK IN THE LIGHT OF THE LORD."

TWENTY-FIRST DAY.

THE CHASTISEMENT OF LOVE. 'ttbc Xoro went before them bg nigbt tn a pillar of fire."

"As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten."—Revelation 3:19.

IREBUKE." "I chasten." These are solemn asseverations. The Fire of the Glory-Pillar we have interpreted very specially, as the symbol of the Divine love But we dare not restrict it to this. It is the emblem of the Divine holiness also. It was an opening strain in the closing song of Israel's great chief— "A God of truth and without iniquity, just and right is He" (Deuteronomy 32:4). And the same assertion is repeated in various forms throughout Scripture.

Nor is it well, in the midst of these thoughts of comfort and solace, to forget this complementary phase of affliction, that God—yes, God, our Heavenly Father, appears to His pilgrim Israel now, as then, at times in a penal character, with the fire of rebuke and chastisement. "Behold, Mine angel," says He, "shall go before thee: nevertheless, in the day when I visit, I will visit their sin upon them" (Exodus 32:34). True, it is not the loftiest, it is not the consolatory view to take of His dealings. That gracious assurance of " Fatherhood" revolts at the thought of retributive suffering. In our seasons of deepest grief we cling to the revelation of the Divine Being with His repertory of golden promises, announcing earth's best symbol of love (" like as a Father ") to be the parable and exponent of His own. Moreover, it would be doing injustice at once to God and His people—it would be a misapprehension contradicted by the lips of a gracious Savior, to regard chastisement in the light the sterner Jews were disposed to do, as the invariable token of Divine displeasure (John 9:2, 3). But yet I feel convinced many a stricken one, conscious of sin—it may be some special sin—can acknowledge through tears: "I know that Thy judgments are right, and that in faithfulness Thou hast afflicted me." "Against Thee, Thee only, have I sinned, and done this evil in Thy sight, that Thou mightest be justified when Thou speakest, and be clear when Thou judgest." "And David said unto God, I have sinned greatly in that I have done this thing: but now put away, I beseech Thee, the iniquity of Thy servant.…And -the Lord commanded the Angel, and he put up his sword again into the sheath thereof" (1 Chronicles 21:8, 27).

Often, too, there may be felt and owned some strange recondite correspondence between the sin and its chastisement, known only to the individual soul, as it whispers its unspoken griefs and accusings in the ear of Omniscience. The arrow which pierces and rankles may be feathered from our own bosoms. It may be some wilful overt act of transgression. It may be the neglect and omission of some known duty. It may be siren voices of the world to which our traitor hearts have too readily though gradually responded, resulting in a wounding of the conscience, restraining prayer, grieving the Spirit: in a word, spiritual declension. He subjects in mercy—yes, in mercy, to some sharp discipline, to rouse us from our perilous sleep. That is the rebuke and chastisement of love here spoken of. Self-humbled, self-accused, self-condemned, we utter the confession with tremulous lip and broken heart —" Righteous art Thou, O Lord."

Tried and suffering one, be comforted. I believe in this furnace of affliction—the fire of Divine rebuke. But I believe, yet more, in the fire of purifying chastisement. Blessed is the man who owns the rectitude of the Great Chastiser, yet who regards all the Divine dealings, with their apparent severity— wasting disease, blighted affections, wither ng disappointments, lacerating bereavements, only (strange as may be the contradiction) as the tokens and pledges of a Father's love. The parent of the Parable, weeping over his penitent prodigal, is the Image of God. He tells you it is a furnace of affliction, lighted, it may be, because of your sin. But He tells you, also, that He kindles it not to destroy but to refine. He Himself is seated by, tempering the fury of the flames; keeping the silver in the glowing heat just so long and no longer than is needed to purify—to purge away the dross, and leave His own image reflected there—"a vessel fit for the Master's use." One of the great master comforters of a past generation reminds us "it is where the rough waves roar, and the rattling shingle is tossed about, that we find the pebbles rounded and polished. So the Lord is shaping the storm-tossed life" {Guthrie). "In the same way," says another, "Christ deals with the white sapphire stone of His love, glistening with its hexagon star of light and the disciple's own name engraved by His own hand as a keepsake of love.…The white stone is love's symbol. For in the old heraldry the sapphire always meant love. The ruby, which is only the red sapphire, earth's love. The commoner blue sapphire, heaven's love. The white sapphire, Christ's special love " (Lovell).

Never let us forget God's object in affliction. It is to draw out new and hitherto unmanifested graces, especially the grace of silent unquestioning submission: the "peaceable fruits of righteousness in them that are exercised thereby." To adopt a sentence written on a different subject, "The devout soul, in this process, may be likened to. a sensitized plate, set in proper position under a starlit sky, which after due exposure is found marked by new stars, invisible to the naked eye, and beyond the farthest sweep of the unaided telescope" {Edinburgh Review). At times the remedial measures, which God sees and knows to be required, may involve the destruction of fond hopes and proud ambitions. You may recall the story of the Italian painter, high on the church scaffolding, completing on that dizzy height one of the frescoes in the cupola. He was over-absorbed in his labor, and in a perilous position, from there being no railing or balustrade. While stepping back, as is the artist's wont, to get the general effect of his subject, he was all unconsciously on the very verge of the scaffolding. Another step would have hurled him a dead man to the marble pavement beneath. A brother artist close by, perceived his danger. With a flash of thought he took the swiftest, best means of rescuing his friend. What was this? He made a dash with his brush at the wet fresco. In so doing he spoilt his companion's work, but he saved his life. This is at times God's needful method of dealing and discipline. He sees His people in perilous and "slippery places," about "to cast themselves to destruction," possibly through their own blindness, and all unconscious of danger. He wrecks, for the moment, their darling hopes, spoils "the pride of life." But all to save and prevent irreparable spiritual loss. "The day of the Lord of Hosts is…on all pleasant pictures" (Isaiah 2:16). It is a strong expression to employ. I heard that great preacher, Henry Melvill, use it fifty years ago, and I have never forgotten it, as he spoke pathetically of a father laying child after child in the grave. "It broke his heart, but saved his soul!" Yes, emphasize the saying of our mottoverse, " As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten." "Unto you it is given—(a family badge, a covenant privilege) to suffer." It is with His own children He thus deals, "Whose fire is in Zion, and His furnace in Jerusalem" (Isaiah 31:9).

O fire of the cloudy Pillar! come and search me, come and try me, come and see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting! Great will be the blessedness of sorrows if such be the result.

"and After The Fire A Still Small

VOICE."

TWENTY-SECOND DAY. VARIED RETROSPECTS.

"Gbe Xoro went before them be night in a pillar of fire."

"Thou shalt remember all the way which the Lord thy God led thee these forty years in the wilderness."—Deuteronomy 8:2.

"I will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went."— Genesis 35:3.

HERE are times in the pilgrimage for more

J- special and solemn recollection. Outstanding anniversaries, birthdays, death-days, and other memorial occurrences, familiar to all, with their blended lights and shadows—these perhaps becoming more impressive as the milestones lessen and the shadows lengthen —pensive twilight hours where there is a growing consciousness that the sun is "westering,"—that the day cannot be far off when Jordan is reached; a few more earthly tents at most can be pitched ere crossing its waters. In such and similar crisis-seasons, and specially the last named, while nearing the hour of departure, the past journey is vividly recalled. Perhaps the most conspicuous is the Lord's discipline, with its gracious solaces and alleviations :—" I call to remembrance my song in the night." The recognition, too, of a Divine purpose in mysterious dispensations :—" Thou shalt remember all the way which the Lord thy God led thee in the wilderness to humble thee and to p:ove thee!' "All the way :" all the leadings, all the teachings. Not the mystery of this or that isolated trial, but the relation of them to the entire pilgrimage; the retrospect of God's multiform and cumulative dealings, the summation of His procedure towards us as one grand whole. With the sacramental provisions of the desert at an end, looking back from the close, this will be the testimony regarding the Jehovah of the Pillar of Cloud—" He led them all the night with a light of fire." Your life-psalm, and specially its terminating strains, will be in accord with many of Israel's desert songs. Take some verses from one of the greatest of these. We may imagine the words inspiring heart and lip of the triumphant host as they stood on the western slopes of the Moab mountains with the hills of Canaan yet in the distance. Figuratively each believer may make them his own :—

"I will make mention of the deeds of the Lord;

For I will remember Thy wonders of old.

I will meditate also upon all Thy work

And muse on Thy doings.

Thy way, O God, is in the sanctuary;

Who is a great God like unto God?

Thou art the God that doeth wonders.

Thou hast made known Thy strength among the peoples,

Thou hast with Thine arm redeemed Thy people,

The sons of Jacob and Joseph.

* * * * #

Thy way was in the sea

And Thy path in the great waters,

And Thy footsteps were not known.

(But) Thou leddest Thy people like a flock,

By the hand of Moses and Aaron."

Psalm 77:11 to end, R.V.

Mourner, whatever be your present feelings under the gloom of some starless night of trial, even the light of the Pillar obscured with murky vapor, haze, and cloud—you will then, at least,

"When scenes long past of joy and pain

Come wildering o'er the aged brain,"

be able to join in the attestation of every spiritual Israelite—"They shall abundantly utter the memory of Thy great goodness, and shall sing of Thy righteousness " (Psalm 145:7). With the patriarch of our second motto-verse you will be led to say," Let us arise and go up to Bethel; and I will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went " (Genesis 35:3). What you deemed at the time, what you may deem now, harsh tones and discords, will be owned in truth to have been the love-whispers of Jesus—the way He took to accomplish within you His own ideal. He adopts every means to rouse from the earthly nest for a sunward flight. Be assured all will then be recognized as needed ministries. The apparent disharmonies of the past will be merged and forgotten in the sound of the great jubilee trumpet, " The year of My redeemed is come!" Even the fear of death, when the last enemy lays his icy finger on your own brow, or the brow of those you love—the natural shrinking from " the swellings of Jordan," will be taken away. In accordance with Bunyan's description of one of his pilgrims in the land of Beulah, " There was a great calm at that time in the river.…This river has been a terror to many: yea, the thoughts of it have often frightened me: but now methinks I stand easy."

Happy are those who, meanwhile, are able so far to discount the intensity of present sorrow, and to accept the gracious though severe discipline. One of the purest, most loving and lovable of souls, familiar to all who heard her "nightingale warblings," and more familiar recently to those who have read the better warblings of her life (like a delegate from her own "bright seraplhim "), thus speaks :—here is her testimony as life advanced, and after a time of severe trial: "It has passed over my soul like a beneficent storm which has broken down all the hard shell of my being, and has set free many green plants to find their way to the dear Sun.…I have only one prayer, that in the evening of my life I may be able to show a pure soul to God.…The Summa Summarium is, that I have won the greatest profit out of both outer and inner misfortune, and can thank God that I know what trouble is. All makes at last for good. God does not die."

No, " God does not die." "The Lord liveth." It is among the most touching inscriptions in Westminster Abbey, one of the two memorable deathsayings of John Wesley, twice repeated on the eve of his departure, " The best of all is, God is with us." God has been with us—with us " in the way which we went "; with us now. The wilderness is full of His inarticulate voices—the voice behind us saying, "This is the way, walk ye in it." He led them and lighted them—(the Dux, LUX, of our opening page) —not with finite and fallible wisdom, not by arbitrary dealings, but with ineffable love and faithfulness: adapting His leading to the wants and requirements of His people: now the sheltered valley: now the sandy treeless waste: now the gleam of the Pillar: now the earthquake and whirlwind. Comforting thought! Our lives and our paths are not self-appointed but divinely appointed: that, too, in all their windings, on to the termination. "When I came to the gate that is at the head of the way, the Lord of that place gave me such things that were necessary for my journey and bid me hope to the end.…My mind is beyond the river that has no bridge" (Pilgrim's Progress).

The same God of pilgrims has promised still to give strength equal to the way and to the day. He is Himself that strength: they are " strong in the Lord and in the power of His might." It is no morbid sentiment that as we advance in life the world gets poorer daily. We can make no new friendships; the bloom of early affection, like that of the finer fruits on garden wall or conservatory, cannot be retained or restored. But He is without variableness or shadow of turning. "He hath said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee." "He will be our Guide even unto death."

I have called this chapter " Varied Retrospects." Following up the sentences of the immediately previous page (in which " the changes and chances" of our mortal existence are spoken of), a reference, enshrining a " retrospect" of a peculiar kind, has just vividly recalled itself; and seems, by way of illustration, appropriate here. Several years ago in autumn—the eve of harvest—I was present at a musical service in the Cathedral of Lucerne, where the diversified notes of the organ, played by a skilled musician, rolled through the building, interpreting Nature in her diversified moods, from the wild and grand to the soft and beautiful. It was an evident " adaptation " of Beethoven's Pastoral Symphony. It began with the birth of the storm, which seemed slowly to brood over the far horizon Now it was heralded by pattering raindrops; now it was the sighing of the wind through "the forest primeval"; now it was thunder-tones waking the echoes of the neighboring Alps, the torrents which the rain had swelled rushing through their gorges. In the vivid words of Lowell, almost as if written for the occasion—

"You can hear the quick heart of the tempest beat.

"The crinkled lightning

Seems ever-brightening,

And loud and long,

Again the thunder shouts

His battle song—

One quivering flash,

One wildering crash,

Followed by silence dead and dull.

* * * * •

"And then a total lull."

Yes, the lull and what followed was the most impressive of all. The revel of these forces, which spoke only too audibly of terror and dismay, ruined harvests and blighted crop?, was followed by a soft cadence. At first, it resembled the ripple of brook or twitter of lark. The dulcet sounds waxed sweeter and lovelier. The spirit of the storm was exorcized; and the culmination of all was the Reapers', or the Villagers'," Hymn of thanksgiving," rising like a canticle of angels. These final notes alone remained; leaving on the ear the peace and calm of heaven. With that the performance ceased. Many a soul knows too well what, in another sense, after the quiet of 'summer in the life'—a blissful calm—is the devastation of autumn storm with its rain, and flood, and hurricane. But "the Lord sitteth on the flood; yea, the Lord sitteth King for ever.…The Lord will bless His people with peace" (Psalm 29:10, n). There is a time coming, when the rage and riot of present disturbing mortal elements shall cease: when cataract and cataclysm will be forgotten amid the strains of the great Eucharist hymn on the lips of " the multitude which no man can number." That song of Heaven's "Harvest Home" will be the same which Faith and Hope were wont, amid lowering clouds, to sing on earth—" He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him" (Psalm 126:6).

As these special recollections of this meditation have been more peculiarly suggestive of Death, let another comforting patriarchal record, older than the Israelites and their desert Pillar, be recalled Regarding more than one of the Pilgrim Fathers it was said, at their hour of departure, " He gave up the ghost." Ghost (Anglo-Saxon gast) or guest (for so the word is supposed to mean) reminds of the "Guest chamber," " The House of Rest." It brings before us life, not as a final home, but a succession of halting places in the journey, with their Hospices for shelter from the windy storm and tempest— lodgings for the wayfarer; and death—the opening to " the Resting-place," with its shadows and darkness apparently closing all. The distinguished Master, who presided over the Great School of the North well known to the writer—as he lay on his dying couch, felt that strange indescribable gloom gathering around him. The thoughts of his long and useful life-work filled his mind's eye—crowding the retrospect. Fancying himself once more in his familiar class room, these were among his last words—" Now, boys, it is getting dark, you may go home." Death is darkness; but it is a "homegoing." The superscription over its Gateway is— THROUGH DARK TO Light. Standing underneath the portico-entrance, a shadow is momentarily thrown. Once the door is opened—" The darkness is past, and the true Light shineth." The gleam of the old Wilderness Pillar is rekindled amid eternal realities—

"No cloud upon its radiant joy,

No shadow o'er its bright employ,

No sleep—no night,

Wrong turned to right,

Dim faith exchanged for perfect sight!"

Yes, and the threefold memories of that Eternal Home, as we still recall all His wilderness leadings, will be these:—

. God Is Light, God Is Life, God Is Love

TWENTY-THIRD DAY

THE SIGHT OF THE KING, AND THE HEAVENLY SONG.

"Gbe Xoro went before them be nifjbt in a pillar of Are'

"Thine eyes shall see the King in His beauty: they shall behold the land that is very far off."—Isaiah 33:17.

"And they sing the song of Moses the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb."—Revelation 15:3.

"^pHE land that is very far off." Still the -*- wilderness—the wilderness, it may be at its saddest and dreariest; "a dry and thirsty land where no water is,"—" A day of darkness and of gloominess, a day of clouds and of thick darkness, as the morning spread upon the mountains" (Joel 2:2).

It would only be to rehearse previous pages, were I to attempt surmising the special affliction with which it has pleased God to visit you.

It may be those terrible night-watches recently spoken of, when, tossed on a couch of suffering, you prevent the dawning of the morning with the plaint, "Lord, how long?" or with Job's unsuccourcd cry, " Show me wherefore Thou contendest with me."

Or, you may be called to stand by the pillow of one dear to you as your life—to know the heart-anguish—the torture—of being powerless to assuage the bewildering pain, or to smooth the furrows from the brow.

Or, it may more likely be, these seething, restless waves have been hushed, and Death's great harbor has been entered. The fierce battle has been bravely fought, and the longed-for victory won. Alas! that victory brings with it, to you and to survivors, the sad consciousness of a sacred link snapped: one departed, who by the very patience which protracted suffering evoked, was only the more endeared to you. The lips which had ofttimes spoken, in audible whispers, a homily of endurance, are now closed. The wilderness-tent, pole and curtains and canvas removed—nothing apparently of the cherished bivouac remaining but a patch of gray ashes—the place that once knew it, knowing it no more!

Awaking from this and similar dreams to a sense of strange loneliness and isolation, with earth's hopes blighted and its enthusiasms dead, the question at once presses itself with impassioned importunate urgency, " Is that the end of all? Is that God's limited, imperfect outcome for the work of His own hands? a few transient years of suffering and prostration—then, the loving flame extinguished in the darkness and oblivion of the grave! Can it be that this world is only a portal opening out on annihilation? Has the spirit vanished to the Pagan region of 'no return'? Did that rough casket hide for ever the priceless jewel from our gaze, and are the flowers and daisies that next summer-tide are to sprinkle the turf, all that the future can give or promise? Is this poor present possession of anguish to have no nobler reversion in some life and scene immortal?"

Yes, with a special, gracious Hand, He leads you here too, through the long night "with a light of fire." The wilderness is too sadly, too truly yours; the darkness is a darkness that may be felt. But Faith and Hope are seen returning with Eschol pledges from the Land of Promise: the land that may still be, in one sense, "very far off," but which your season of trial has brought to you very near. There is a Canaan—a Heaven purchased and secured by indefeasible, inalienable right. "The Lord thy God bringeth thee," says the Jehovah of the Pillar-cloud, " into a good land—a land that floweth with milk and honey. Thou shalt bless the Lord thy God for the good land which He hath given thee." There is a time coming and a world coming, when sorrows shall be ended, the mystery of pain unfolded, the " need be" explained—when present inequalities in the human lot shall be redressed and adjusted, and when the avowal often now whispered with tremulous lips shall be uttered unhesitatingly, "Just and true are Thy ways!" Christ, "the Lord and Giver of Life," has not left, either in your own case or in that of those dear to you, heart-yearnings, longings after immortality, baffled. The King has lifted the curtain to disclose the Beautiful Land. It is one of the concluding utterances in His great Valedictory—the gleam of the lighted Pillar falls on the words—" Father, I will, that they also whom Thou hast given Me be with Me where I am, that they may behold My glory!" On that same occasion He assures His disciples that He would not deceive them with misleading teachings—that He would not take them to a Mount Pisgah and show them a land "very far off," which they were forbidden to enter (John 14:2). His own Risen Life is to be the pledge and guarantee of theirs. Their immortal being is to be commensurate with His—" Because I live, ye shall live also!"

Our second motto-verse admits us into the very presence of " the King in His beauty." It presents to us the twofold Theme in the song of the glorified.

Note, how the heavenly anthem is attuned to the memories of the desert, " They sing the song of MOsEs the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb." In other words—the song of Providence and the song of Grace. And if it be bereavement that is your present affliction, you can think of your loved one singing that dual strain!

(1) The Song of the cloudy and fiery Pillar; the Song of God's providential dealings in the bygone wilderness. If these dealings be a retrospect of suffering and pain and death, the joy of exemption from these in a sorrowless world, will only be enhanced by the contrast with the earthly experience, "These are they that came out of great tribulation" (Revelation 7:14). Once they hungered, and thirsted, and fainted, and groaned, and were burdened. Now, "they shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more." Angels who have never suffered and never died, cannot know the bliss of contrast. It is a privilege belonging alone to the ransomed. Those who have buffeted the windy storm and tempest can alone understand the shelter and safety of the Eternal Home. They will love to retrace every turn and winding of the oft checkered pilgrimage; not now with the host of Egypt behind and the dread wilderness before; but encamped by a sea of glass, mirroring the peace of God. They will " sing the song of Moses" and the burden of that song of Providence will be the now familiar earthly words with a heavenly meaning— "He led them forth also by a right way, that they might go to a city of habitation.…Oh, that men would praise the Lord for His goodness, and for His wonderful works to the children of men!"

(2) The Song of Grace—the song of Redemption; the song whose keynote will be the wilderness memory of the Paschal Lamb, with the besprinkled lintels and door-posts: "Worthy is the Lamb that was slain!" It will gather its chief inspiration from the beatific Presence—the sight of "the King." And conjoined with this vision, there will be fellowship with His saints; they, glad and rejoicing in Him; He, glad and rejoicing in them. Our own beloved dead, ransomed from the power of the grave, will be among the number. "All Thine are Mine, and Mine are Thine, and I am glorified in them " (John 17:10). One of the bridal songs of the Church militant shall then receive a new significance at these espousals of the Church triumphant—" The King's daughter is all glorious within; her clothing is of wrought gold. She shall be brought unto the King in raiment of needlework, the virgins, her companions that follow her, shall be brought unto Thee. With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought, they shall enter into the King's palace" (Psalm 45:13, 14, 15). Think of this gathering— this " federation of souls " under their living Head beyond the river! Each redeemed one will be as "a Pillar of fire": "Then shall the righteous shine lorth as the sun in the Kingdom of their Father :" the glory broadening and deepening into eternal day.

Reader, seek to realize the presence of that King in His beauty now. Remember, in the midst of human sorrow and suffering, frailty and weakness, that " All power is given to Him "—that Omnipotence slumbers in His arm. "He is King." Yea, "King of kings, and Lord of lords " (Revelation 19:16): —the mighty God, while the sympathetic Elder Brother. One of the most glorious revelations given to St. John in Patmos was this very Deity of His, in conjunction with the symbol of suffering humanity of which we have been speaking. "1 beheld," says he, " and, lo, in the midst of the throne stood a Lamb as it had been slain" (Revelation 5:6). The comment of an old Writer is, "a Lamb," not in front of the throne, nor at the side of the throne, nor at the back of the throne—but "in the midst of the throne " ;—emblem of His supreme Divinity— Godhead in conjunction with the tenderness of humanity: the true "mighty Angel" of another chapter, rainbow-crowned, and (carrying out the name and symbol of the present volume) "clothed with a cloud…and His feet as Pillars of fire "(Revelation 10:1). The ever-present consciousness of His nearness, love, and exalted sympathy proves the best antidote and panacea in times of sore trouble. John—the beloved disciple, the likest to his Lord, delights in after years (his lonely years, his suffering years), to gaze on that Fiery Pillar. In the memory of its gleam he writes—" We beheld His glory, the glory as of the Only Begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth" (John 1:14). Its gracious radiance remained with him still, whether at Jerusalem or Bethsaida—Patmos or Ephesus. In a rapture of ecstatic joy—the Presence and the Land alike now not far off, but rather getting nearer and nearer—he exclaims, " It doth not yet appear what we shall be; but we know that when He shall appear, we" (and that "we" including all whom we have " loved long since and lost awhile ") " we shall be like Him, for we shall see Him as He is I"

"And So Shall We Ever Be With The Lord."

TWENTY-FOURTH DAY. MORE ENDURING THAN MOUNTAINS.

"Gbe Xoro went before them bg nigbt in a pillar of ttre."

"The mountains shall depart, and the hills be removed; but My kindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall the covenant of My peace be removed, saith the Lord that hath mercy upon thee."— Isaiah 54:10.

"Who is this that cometh up from the wilderness, leaning upon her Beloved ?"—Sol. Song of Solomon 8:5.

OUNTAINS are God's sentinels in outer

i-VJ. creation. Mountains have ever been the symbols of immutability in the Kingdom of Grace.

As the Pillar of Flame moved on in its majestic leading, the rocks of the Sinai region must specially have been lighted up in lurid splendor: the glow on cliff and precipice would be all the more impressive to pilgrim Israel, so long habituated to the level plains and sands of Egypt. Jehovah made the chief of these mountains His throne. The words of the Decalogue were sounded, as from a tribunal, on its loftiest peaks: and the Mowitainmemories of "the great and terrible wilderness" seem to have survived all others. Thus does the prophet sing of that desert-march: "God came from Teman, and the Holy One from Mount Paran.…The eternal mountains were scattered, the everlasting hills did bow " (Habbakuk 3:3, 6). "Even Sinai itself," says the minstrel king, " was moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel" (Psalm 68:8).

In the words of the first of our verses we have another chief singer in the great choir, making the mountains with their firm foundations—monoliths of primeval granite—to be preachers of comfort. You can sooner expect these mountains to drift from their moorings, than God's kindness to depart from you and the covenant of His peace to be removed. "Lift up your eyes to the heavens, and look upon the earth beneath: for the heavens shall vanish away like smoke, and the earth shall wax old like a garment, and they that dwell therein shall die in like manner: but My salvation shall be for ever, and My righteousness shall not be abolished " (Isaiah 51:6).

Afflicted one, are you mourning the loss of wealth, the loss of friends, the premature setting of bright earthly suns, "the graves of a household "? What you dreamt of as permanent, enduring buttresses—buttresses of iron, reveal, in an unexpected moment, first a rent, and then they come with a crash to the ground. Too sadly, too truly the earthly props and pillars may be gone. But that which forms the figure throughout this volume, not human but Divine, survives the wreck of all. The voices of earth come and go—the voice of God remains. Angels, as they cluster around the sick-bed and death-bed, or watch the survivor stooping in tears at the grave, whisper to one another, " He spake unto them in the Cloudy Pillar" (Psalm 99:7).

This parable of the mountains seems to me peculiarly beautiful and impressive. Let us for a moment linger on it, and change the scene of the picture from east to west—equally glorious mountain-regions nearer ourselves. Gaze up at those barrier Alps with their coronals of eternal snow, like a conclave of kings seated on thrones of alabaster. Coeval with creation, they appear fresh as at first sculptured by the Great Artificer, claiming a pedigree older than the pyramids. Yet, not only they may change, but, though it be imperceptibly, they are changing. Through atmospheric and other influences corrosion is doing its slow and silent work. Frost and tempest with giant chisel are incising and furrowing their brows. Their sides are plowed with the avalanche, strewing the valley with uprooted pine forests, or with fragments of rock whose golden lichen "has reflected the sunsets of a thousand years." The ocean boasts of an unwrinkled surface. But these Titan—apparently adamantine heights cannot hurl back the challenge.

"The hills are shadowed, and they flow

From form to form, and nothing stands:

They melt like mist, the solid lands,

Like clouds they shape themselves and go."

Tennyson.

The voice of the tempest rioting around their summits, takes up the hymn of the peasants in the chalets below, "Change is our portion here!" But He, who is mightier than tempests—who maketh the clouds His chariot, who walketh on the wings of the wind, and "discovereth the forests," says of and to His people, " I change not." No forces, material ,or spiritual, can undermine your covenant security. "As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the Lord is round about His people from henceforth even for ever" (Psalm 125:2). I have graven thy name, not in friable pulverizing rock, or tottering monument, but "on the palms of My hand." It is indelible. (Isaiah 49:16.)

And thus, to the cynical, pessimistic question of these latter days, "Is Life worth living?" the answer may be given—that too, even with a roll and record of accumulated affliction—" Although the fig tree shall not blossom, neither shall fruit be in the vines; the labor of the olive shall fail, and the fields shall yield no meat; the flock shall be cut off from the fold, and there shall be no herd in the stalls: yet I will rejoice in the Lord, I will joy in the God of my salvation" (Habbakuk 3:17, 18).

I may appropriately close this meditation with a reference to that other desert picture, designed for every pilgrim of sorrow, suggested in our second quotation. It is that of a straggler from the caravan, faint and weary, desolate and forlorn— a wanderer from " the Shepherd's tents," and " the footsteps of the flock " (Sol. Song of Solomon 1:8). The daylight is about to fade, the rush of darkness is at hand; but the great Sympathetic One has hastened to the succor. A group of spectators, as they see the two figures afar off revealed in the first flash of the lighted pillar, are heard exclaiming, " Who is this that cometh up from the wilderness, leaning upon her Beloved?"

"What dejected form is this

Coming from the wilderness?

Feeble step and languid eye,

Tell a chequer'd history.

'Weary one, art thou alone,

With no arm to lean upon?'

"Everlasting arms of love

Are beneath, around, above;

He who faced the fiery flood,

Braved the baptism of blood;

Who upon th' accursed tree

Gave His precious life for me; -

He who marks each falling tear

Of His burden'd pilgrims here;

He who wields Creation's rod,

He, my Brother, yet my God,

Never slumb'ring, never sleeping,

Vigils ever wakeful keeping,—

He it is that bears me on,

His the arm I lean upon.

"All things hasten to decay,

Earth and seas must pass away;

Soon must yonder circling sun

Cease his blazing course to run.

Scenes may vary, friends grow strange,

But The Changeless cannot change.

Fellowship that naught can sever,

Loving once, He loves for everl

Say, with such a Friend as this,

Who would dread the wilderness?"

O thou who art mourning at this moment over the perishable, look to the Imperishable! Fast may be falling "the eventide," with the poet's "deepening darkness." You may have, in the midst of sudden affliction, that strange sense of insecurity even about remaining blessings which the bereaved know so well. The intermittent fireglow is seen in the Pillar; but you have a halftrembling dread of its extinction—leaving you lonely and despairing in the starless night! No, no! With this consciousness of instability blend a prayer to the Immutable,—

"Swift to its close ebbs out life's little day,

Earth's joys grow dim, its glories pass away;

Change and decay in all around I see,

O Thou, who changest not, abide with me 1"

"the Sun Shall Be No More Thy Light By Day; Neither For Brightness Shall The Moon Give Light Unto Thee; But The Lord Shall Be Unto Thee An Everlasting Light, And Thy God Thy Glory."

TWENTY-FIFTH DAY.

THE BROKEN HEART HEALED.

"tTbe Xoro went before them bg niflbt in a pillar of fire."

"A wounded spirit who can bear?"—Proverbs 18:14. "He healeth the broken in heart, and bindeth up their wounds." —Psalm 147:3.

DOES the Pillar of Fire cast any light on a peculiar experience in the varying night of sorrow? Not bodily suffering or bereavement or death; but the pang caused by unmerited wrong—all the more poignant if conjoined with ingratitude—the desertion or treachery of trusted friends? —in the words of the psalmist, "My heart is wounded within me" (Psalm 109:22).

If I venture to record a personal remembrance, 1 do so in order both to add a new flash from the comforting Column, as well as to offer a singular corroboration to more than one of the preceding meditations. The mere personal element in the reference must for once be forgiven.

It matters nothing to the reader what was the occasion of such "unspoken grief." Enough to say that it was one acute in its nature; and though emanating from an unknown source, the words of the wise man at once asserted a meaning all their own—" A wounded spirit who can bear?"

As if in aggravation "the bolt from the blue" reached me on a Sunday morning in London. In the unsympathetic solitude of the great city, I made it my prayer that in the sanctuary where I proposed worshiping that forenoon, God's servant —(one in many ways peculiarly gifted) might be directed to speak some words of comfort and healing—something that might tend to alleviate; and make the sharp cross, which it truly was, capable of being submissively borne.

Never can I forget when the text of the sermon was announced,—

"he Healetii The Broken In Heart, And Bindeth Up Their Wounds."

It seemed in a moment, as if the bow, drawn by the preacher at a venture, had its feathered and commissioned arrow of consolation. "I have a message from God unto thee"

An early, soothing illustration was taken from the Book of Nature, and it was all the more remarkable and impressive, as it was borrowed from a scene in my own native land with which I was very familiar, and which has all my life exercised an enchantment over me. It touched a familiar and responsive chord, " First that which is natural, afterward that which is spiritual" (1 Corinthians 15:46).

With the speaker I was, and am, personally unacquainted; but he will condone the liberty I take, for the sake of the comfort given to myself and doubtless to others in his crowded congregation, if I try to recall, as near as I may, though it may be in an amplified form, his parable picture: adding, moreover, that though introduced, owing to circumstances, by one suggested form, it is equally applicable to all forms of trial: from those of the sick-chamber,. to the death-bed and the grave. Strange enough, however, the spokesman seemed most in sympathy, as will be seen, at the moment, with the special experience above alluded to.

"Several years ago," said he, " I was walking, one autumn afternoon, through that lovely Scottish glen, the Pass of Killiecrankie. To my sorrow, its charms at the time seemed irretrievably spoiled by the formation of a railway. Many of its graceful trees had already fallen. The engineers were blasting its rocks, gashes were being made in the wilderness of wild bracken; the bare, naked piers of a viaduct were half erected. Trails of ivy had been torn from their holdings. Formal embankments were being raised, and artificial bridges were in the course of being built, which appeared fatally to mar all natural grace. There was nothing but havoc on every side. The glory had departed.

"This last autumn," he continued, " I happened, in my holiday, again to visit the same part of the country, including this, what I had thought hopelessly desecrated ground. To my astonishment the old vanished beauty was singularly restored. The gaps, so disfiguring a few years' previously, were refilled. The banks were already clothed with broom and gorse, and the whitestemmed birches were afresh waving their green or golden tresses. The rocks which had been scarred, were tapestried with lichen, the grassy slopes and knolls, so denuded and bare, were again dotted with clumps of native heather and groupings of fern. The very bridges spanning the hollows, which seemed on the former occasion the most glaring offenders, were festooned with ivy. It was altogether a unique and unexpected vision—a resurrection of loveliness. The scene indeed had been altered. The former charm of seclusion had specially been sacrificed. But Nature had wonderfully reasserted her power of restoration. The God of Nature, through this illuminated page, illustrated and interpreted my text—' He healeth the broken in heart, and bindetli up their wounds!

"Yes," he proceeded, "and it is so in a far better, truer, nobler sense, in the world of sorrow. Picture of the heart torn and bleeding. Some cruel unkindness that has lacerated it. The gash of envy or malice that has laid bare an inner wound. Some secret trial which the world knows nothing of, which has shorn it of its joy and comfort and peace, and left it, like that Valley, a wreck of what it was. Sadder still, when bereavement has stripped it of its glories—the axes of affliction hewing down tender and sacred memorials: affection, more clinging than that ivy, torn rudely from its hold—left apparently to pine and wither on the ground, and appeal in vain for replacement in the old fastenings. On these very occasions of hopelessness and despair, God's ministries of solace are at work. The healing hand of Time has passed into a proverb. Like that favored spot I have sought to describe, the seams and gashes of the smitten soul will in due season be restored. The angels of resignation and consolation are commissioned to weave a garment for 'the spirit of heaviness' and to 'give beauty for ashes.' Unkindnesses and cutting taunts and cruel reproaches, which we think at first we never can get over, making our lives for the future desolate— yes " (I well remember as this sentence was uttered, his striking his breast with emphasis), " BREAKING THE HEART. Lo! in a little while, sooner than we could have imagined, new thoughts and new joys, like flocks of birds, make their nests in the eaves of the soul. Soon the old desolation is clothed and verdant again, and the leafy coverts are filled with song. 'Although thou sayest thou canst not see Him, yet judgment is before Him, therefore trust thou in Him.' There will be the green pastures once more. The valleys of life will again invite summer tint, and music of stream, and gush of sunshine. God's own words will have their figurative fulfillment, 'For ye shall go out with joy, and be led forth with peace: the mountains and the hills shall break forth before you into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands. Instead of the thorn, shall come up the fir tree, and instead of the brier shall come up the myrtle tree: and it shall be to the Lord for a name, for an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off.' 'He healeth the broken in Iieart, and bindeth up their wounds !'"

Though I retain a few jottings I can by no means vouch for these being a verbal transcript of the words heard that Sunday morning; for long years have since intervened, and .1 may have possibly spoiled by the attempt at expansion and embellishment from my own memories of the locality. But should they accidentally meet the eye of the speaker, he will recognize a Faithful rehearsal of the spirit, at least, of his remarks, and be glad of the comfort they conveyed. "When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me, until I went into the sanctuary of God " (Psalm 73:16,17). There the Divine promise was fulfilled," He satisfieth the longing soul, and filleth the hungry soul with goodness " (Psalm 107:9). "As one whom his mother comforteth, so will I comfort you; and ye shall be comforted in Jerusalem" (Isaiah 66:13).

O reader, trust thy God! He will, gradually, it may be—but surely—put forth His healing touch; bringing order out of chaos, calm out of storm, hope out of dejection and despair. Listen to one of the many voices from the Cloudy Pillar. The words seem inspired by that same great drama of the old desert. To the crushed and desolate heart they have often come like a Divine missive borne on the wings of ministering angels:—" I, even I, am He that comforteth you. Who art thou, that thou art afraid of a man that shall die, and of the son of man that shall be made as grass; and hast forgotten the Lord thy Maker that stretchest forth the heavens and laid the foundations of the earth; and hast feared continually every day because of the fury of the oppressor?…But I am the Lord thy God that divided the sea, whose waves roared: the Lord of Hosts is His name. And I have put My words in thy mouth, and I have covered thee in the shadow of My hand, that I may…say unto Zion, Thou art My people" (Isaiah 51:12, 13,15, 16). God's treatment of many a sufferer is that of the nurse in the hospital during the long day and the weary night-watches. It is described in our motto-verse by the twc words, "healing" and "binding." He enjoins on His patient, rest and silence.

Specially look to Him who was symbolized by the Fiery Pillar—the Savior God, who Himself, under the load of bitterest and most varied reproach, was silent with submission—" dumb before His shearers," " answering not a word." He "endured grief, suffering wrongfully" (1 Peter 2:19). He— yes He, draws nigh to you in your hour of wounding and weakness and weariness. The doleful words may be sounding in your ears, "Cease ye from man whose breath is in his nostrils." But He has a gracious, glorious counterpart—-"Trust in the Lord for ever, for in the Lord Jehovah is a Rock of Ages!" (R.V.) "He hath said,' I will never leave thee nor forsake thee.' So that we may boldly say, 'The Lord is my helper, I will not fear what man can do unto me.'" Let the Pillar thus flash a new healing beam :—

"Commit Thy Way Unto The Lord, Trust Also In Him, And He Shall Bring It To Pass. And He Shall Bring Forth Thy RighteousNess As The Light, And Thy Judgment As The Noonday."

TWENTY-SIXTH DAY.

HEAVEN.

"XLbe Xoro went before them bg nigbt tn a pillar of fire."

"God Himself shall be with them, and be their God. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former things are passed away."—Revelation 21:3, 4.

THOUGH these words take as beyond Jordan, to the true Land of Promise, they yet form in reality a present ground of comfort, and that the loftiest. The night of the pilgrim way is gladdened by this bright anticipation of "the world to come," with its cluster of negative and positive blessings. The negative, absolute cessation from all evil. No more death, no more sorrow, no more crying, no more pain. The positive—the Everlasting Presence and fellowship of Him of whom the night-column of the desert was a type:—" God Himself shall be with them, and be their God."

Sorrowing one, traveling onwards night-watch after night-watch—the ground you tread saturated with "dewy tears,"—keep your eye fixed on these letters of flame, God's own hieroglyphics inscribed on the glory-symbol, telling you that there is a day coming when affliction and pain and death will have nothing left behind them but a memory. Yes, a memory; waking from a troubled dream :— no more. Angel watchers greeting you with the welcome assurance—' The Wilderness is all trodden now. The gloom has vanished; peril is ended; the true light shineth; the former things are passed away.'

Your present trial or trials may doubtless be

great. For days and weeks, possibly for years,

you may have been seeking in vain to penetrate

the environing darkness. The problem, whether

connected with yourself or others, may continue

unsolved and insoluble. But, in that everlasting

dwelling-place, your Heavenly Father will not only

be with you, but the description of His own Hand

wiping away every lingering tear-drop, seems to

indicate a full and perfect unfolding then, and by

Himself, of what is denied you now. "Then is

finished the mystery of God, according to the good

tidings which He declared to His servants" (Rev.

10:7, R.V.). The seals of the roll of Providence

will be broken. The confession will be made, no

longer with reserve or stammering tongue—

"And aye the dews of sorrow

Were lustred with His love 1"

Specially will this be true regarding your beloved dead, and the mystery of their departure. You will meet them on the heavenly shore. There is "crying" here spoken of in our motto-verse; suggestive of the Rachels on earth, weeping for their children and will not be comforted because they are not; husbands, wives, parents, brothers, sisters, mourning their " loved and lost." Then, and there, it will be glad reunions with the loved never to be lost again. You can think of that now. You and they can meet in spiritual but very real fellowship even here. In one sense, like the distant stars of the psalmist's night-song, they may have "no speech nor language, their voice is not heard." But faith can catch up the responsive tones floating from the spirit-land,—

"Oh! the outward hath gone! But in glory and power

The spirit surviveth the things of an hour;

Unchanged, undecaying, its Pentecost flame

On the heart's secret altar is beaming the same."

"God washes the eyes by tears," says a powerful writer, "until they can behold the invisible land where tears shall come no more. O love! O affliction! Ye are the guides which show us the way through the great airy space where our loved ones walked; and as hounds easily follow the scent before the dew be risen, so God teaches us, while yet our sorrow is wet, to follow on and find our dear ones in Heaven."

I have heard of this legend concerning a town on the coast of Spain. Two bells had been cast for the tower of its ancient church, intended to be hung there side by side; but the vessel in which they were being brought was wrecked in a storm, and one of the two was hopelessly sunk in the sea. The myth which superstition had weaved round the story was—that whenever the one sounded on land, the lost one was heard far away chiming at the same time from its ocean belfry. The Iberian legend has its beauty and significance regarding "the Better Country." Severed as we are from our departed, we are still in sympathetic touch. "The bells of earth are bells of heaven." The sweet tones above—the living chimes, are answered from the swell of waves and surge of storm below; an interchange of pledges, that the union of soul with soul remains. Even now, in the words of our great poet, they " are bells of one accord." The hour is coming when "the sea shall give up its dead," and the now severed ones will sing their cadences together in the Church of the First-born. The writer may crave indulgence to insert here, lines he has elsewhere written :—

11 We have gained our Home at last,

In this Palace bright and glorious:

Every wave of Jordan past,

Over every foe victorious.

Now across the border river,

From His presence naught can sever,

We shall sing His praise for ever.

"Now we read God's ways aright:

All that evil once portended,

In the blaze of Heavenly light,

Is with love and mercy blended.

Seen across the border river,

From His presence naught can sever,

We shall sing His praise for ever!

"Here beloved friends we meet;

There restored their smiles of gladness,

Everlasting bliss complete;

Joy unmixed with aught of sadness.

Fought the fight—the kingdom won,

Death behind us, life before us,

While eternal ages run,

Never shall we cease the chorus—

'We are safe beyond the river,

From His presence naught can sever

We shall sing His praise for ever!'''

And let us, just in closing, emphasize the thought of this meditation—the thought of this volume — that affliction is the main " factor" in all that resultant bliss. What would those heavenly "Biographies" have been, but for God's four blessed Evangelists here spoken of who wrote them— Sorrow, Crying, Pain, Death? Of whom are the most crowded ranks among the Redeemed composed? In the beautiful Vision of Patmos, let "one of the Elders "—pointing to those who "came out of great tribulation," reply—" THESE are they" (Revelation 7:13, 14). Christ's words to His tried and true soldiers on earth, those who are the subjects of severest martial discipline, and who accept it because it is His—ready to follow Him through struggle to victory with brave, submissive hearts, will have the promise accompanying gloriously fulfilled in the sorrowless, tearless world—" Him that overcometh will I make a Pillar in the temple of My God, and he shall go no more out: and I will write upon him the name of My God, and the name of the city of My God, which is New Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from My God: and I will write upon him My new name" (Revelation 3:12).

"I HAVE REMEMBERED THY NAME,

O Lord, In The Night."

TWENTY-SEVENTH DAY.

LIGHT IN DARKNESS.

"Gbe Xoro went before them bg ntgbt in a pillar of flre."

"And I will bring the blind by a way that they knew not; I will lead them in paths that they have not known: I will make darkness light before them, and crooked things straight. These things will I do unto them, and not forsake them."—Isaiah 42:16.

'' What I do thou knowest not now; but thou shalt know hereafter."—John 13:7.

TWIN voice speaking from the Glory-Cloud.

That Cloud, as of old, often conducts, as we have again and again noted, not by the short and easy way to the true Canaan, but through formidable leagues of desert. The cry of the fainting Hebrew host is repeated still: "We are entangled; the wilderness hath shut us in." So great too, now and then, is the gloom, that with misgiving hearts we ask—Can the testimony in our case, be indeed true—" He led them All the night with a light of fire " ?" O rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for Him." The luminous token, temporarily obscured, will in due time appear. He will subject you to no unnecessary peril, no needless circuitous road. Trust this promise; trust it in the dark; trust it when you fail to trace:—" I will bring the blind by a way that they knew not; I will lead them in paths that they have not known: I will make darkness light before themj and crooked things straight. These things will I do unto them, and not forsake them."

What a wondrous succession of wilderness watchwords! all crowned by the gracious assurance that He "appoints all"; and that though the light of the Pillar-cloud may seem to us fitful and wavering, He does not, and will not, abandon His covenant Israel. It was but the other day I saw a picture of a blind man. The name—the impressive title—given to it by the artist, was "Lighten our darkness, 0 Lord!" The subject of the picture was reading from the raised letters of a Bible. A lamp was throwing its brightness on the reader's countenance, and on the hieroglyphics of the sacred page. God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, was then and there shining into his heart with the light of the knowledge of His own glory. The principal figure seemed from the reflected glow on the face to say, "And He took the blind man by the hand and led him" (Mark 8:23). Here surely Art suggestively portrayed what the Lord does with our rayless souls in the gloom of blinding trial:—" If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me; even the night shall be light about me" (Psalm 139:11).

I love the thought:—God the Leader of the blind; and in their very blindness interpreting His ways!

Turn we now to the added motto-verse. We have spoken of it specifically in a previous page. But we may recur to it here as a New Testament parallel with the Old. "What I do!" The Divine Brother in our nature, about to expiate the sins of the world by laying down His own life, uttered the saying. The time He uttered it was that, when surely, beyond all others, an electric chord of sympathy was linking Him with universal suffering humanity. He could then and there, with a deeper intensity and pathos, use the declaration He made of old in the night of the Exodus—" I know your sorrows." The same balm-word was whispered in this the most solemn crisis of all time. It came from the lips of dying love. 'I am about,' He seems to say, 'to encounter the hour and power of darkness tor you. Will you not accept My own self-surrender and sacrifice, My tears and groans and agony, as the pledge that I can enter, from personal experience, into your uttermost griefs? I can send no redundant trial. Trust My "hereafter promise." And, meanwhile, let the reverential saying be your own—the saying I am about to utter in the garden-shade, in the name of all sufferers— "This cup which My heavenly Father giveth Me to drink, shall I not drink it?'"

Yes, "hereafter." "I will make" (not "I have made ")" crooked things straight." "Hereafter"— Reader, let that word ring its solitary chime in your darkness. We cannot too often recall, how emphatically the writer of the Epistle to the Hebrews loves to echo the same—"Nevertheless AFTERWARD" (Hebrews 12:11). It is the Divine order and sequence. Present ignorance, future unfoldings. Present darkness, future illumination. Present blindness, the full vision of God; His "light of fire " transforming the arid wastes and sands of the wilderness into a pathway of safety and peace. Even in this world, when, as just noted, the atmosphere is dulled with haze and mist and cloud, we have flashing gleams from the Pillar—revelations, partial and incomplete it may be, of the ways of the Almighty, strange minglings of light and shadow. In the unblighted home above, there will be a finished retrospect of wisdom and faithfulness, the light of fire without the murky cloud—the pathetic appeal of the patriarch sufferer heard no more—"When shall I arise and the night be gone?" (Job 7:4).

Recognise, then, sorrowing one, God's hand and presence in this and all the solemn passages of your life; the day-cloud given to temper the heat of prosperity, the fire-cloud to counteract the noxious exhalations of adversity. "When I am weary and disappointed," says a sympathetic writer, "when the skies lower into the somber night, when there is no song of bird, and the perfume of flowers is but their dying breath; when all is unsetting and autumn; then I yearn for Him who sits with the summer of love in His soul, and feel that earthly affection is but a glow-worm light, compared to that which blazes with such effulgence in the heart of God." Other lights may be obscured or missing; yours may possibly even now be either the mourner's watch, with its hushed vigils, or you may be sundered by death from dearly loved ones, yearning for "the touch of the vanished hand." You cannot be away from the touch of God. "The Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest." Grow not weary of His correction. He loves thee through thine anguish, and will yet assuredly vindicate the rectitude of all His procedure.

The lines seem so appropriate, in closing this meditation, that their familiarity will not deter transcribing them. They form the prayer and solace of all " Pilgrims of the night," as they look upwards to their Guiding Pillar:—

"Lead, kindly Light, amid the encircling gloom,

Lead Thou me on!

The night is dark, and I am far from home,

Lead Thou me on!

Keep Thou my feet: I do not ask to see

The distant scene—one step enough for me.

• • • • •

"So long Thy power hath blessed me, sure it still

Will lead me on

O'er moor and fen, o'er crag and torrent, till

The night is gone.

And with the morn those angel faces smile

Which I have loved long since, and lost awhile."

Ceasing unavailing tears, look forward to the time when the promise of earth will be perpetuated without symbol in the heavenly city: and when a new meaning will be given to the old words of the Wilderness Leader,—

"But All The Children Of Israel Had Light In Their Dwellings."

TWENTY-EIGHTH DAY

MINGLED DEALINGS.

"ttbe Xoro went before them be nigbt in a pillar of fire."

"I will sing of mercy and judgment."—Psalm ci. I.

ANOTHER gleam of the Pillar—the gracious blending of God's dealings, as well as the gracious alleviations vouchsafed in the season of trial. "Mercy and Judgment" is the believer's dual experience. The writer who penned our mottoverse, himself no stranger to sorrow, puts Mercy first. Our mercies are ever greater than our judgments.

Such, too, was the experience and retrospect of pilgrim Israel in the desert, and of the Hebrew nation in subsequent times. The barren rocks of Meribah, the bitter wells of Marah, the tents of Kedar, the Valley of Baca, alternated with palms of Elim, fields of Manna, vineyards of Eschol, Hill Mizars, "Fountains of gardens, wells of living waters, and streams from Lebanon." Moses, in bringing their own mingled memories vividly before the people, took special care in his address to give prominence to the present, as well as the past proofs and tokens of the Divine goodness:—" The Lord thy God which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage; who led thee through the wilderness, wherein were fieryserpents and scorpions, and thirsty ground where was no water; who brought thee forth water out of the rock of flint: who fed thee in the wilderness with manna" (Deuteronomy 8:14, 15, 16, R.V.). Mourner, as you are now passing under the cloud of some mysterious trial, are you not tempted to think of the "Judgment"—the afflictions alone? No one would under-estimate or make light of these. It may be not only loving companionships ended, but garnered intellectual stores thrown apparently "like rubbish to the void"; perhaps wounds deeper still, where there has been moral shipwreck, the truth acutely felt of the familiar words of an old writer, " Better David's dead child than his living Absalom." Be it so. But is it right, is it just, that you should overlook complementary and remaining blessings, and live insensible to the solaces which surround your altered lot, as if all that makes life tolerable or endurable had perished ?" Through cloud and sunshine" is the poet's picture—his truthful picture in his great hymn. There are ever blue vistas—rents in the lowering sky: subjects of gratitude amid experiences of deepest grief. A voyager in one of his journals vividly describes, in crossing the Atlantic, the huge icebergs which floated by the vessel. "Nothing could exceed the majesty and beauty of these masses coming from some mysterious source and floating silently on the mighty ocean.…The mass was of the purest alabaster, white as you can conceive, gleaming and glistening in the setting sun." The golden rays glorify the front of the colossal diamond with facets of fire. The reverse —the obverse side, untouched by "the western waves of ebbing day," is dull, opaque, sunless: a deep shadow trails behind. It is a parable of human experience: the contrast, or rather the combination of opposites.

Were you ever struck with that passing incident in the scene at Bethany—how at the very time Jesus was baptizing the grave of His friend with tears, "He gave thanks'"} (John 11:41.) "The goodness and severity of God" is St. Paul's statement of the Divine method and procedure (Romans 11:22). Take the case of bereavement, (we shall speak of it exclusively in the remainder of this Chapter)—the severance which death causes from those (to use a common phrase) you felt in your heart of hearts "you never could do without." Now they are gone. Their departure is like the expunging from the firmament of the lights of heaven. You can understand what is recorded of one of the early English monarchs on the loss of his son, " that from that hour he never smiled again." But every such sorrow—sorrows the most exceptional, with an anguish all their own—have often—have generally, corresponding intensity of solace and comfort. Specially is it so in the case of dear ones who in life carried with them sunshine wherever they went—loving to God and man. These in the best sense never can be lost. These cannot die. They remain beacon-lights set on the farther shore: such treasures of memory are imperishable. They have left behind them "Songs without words," which reverberate in endless echoes among the hills. The serenade of goodness is everlasting. Finely has one of God's hero-hearts written :—

"What though we are but weary pilgrims here,

Travellers whose place of rest is not below;

Who must along the path of sorrow go: With weak hearts trembling betwixt hope and fear For those we cherish and regard so dear:

Yet, mourning brother, wherefore should we know That rayless grief which broodeth o'er despair?

For still a treasure full of bliss is ours I— Sweet commune with the good which are and were,

Virtue and love, high truth, exalted powers, Converse with God in deep, confiding prayer,

An ever present Lord to seek and save, The word which quickens more than vernal showers,

A Father's House, beyond the silent grave."

Norman Macleod.

To descend for a moment from these higher thoughts. Even in minor things—what may be called the circumstantials of trial, how much have we often to be thankful for—much that might have been different. In brief commonplace, "things might have been worse." 'My departed/ says one, 'might have dragged out—as many have—a lingering death among strangers.' Another, ' Mine might have fallen hapless in the field of battle, stretching out unsuccoured hands for help and pity.' Another, 'I might only have been permitted to think in connection with him, of ocean's wandering graves, where no epitaph can be traced, his memorial perished with him! But by God's gracious overruling providence, the eyes were closed amid the calm, peaceful surroundings of home—with tender hands soothing the last hours of suffering, and cherished voices linking thought alike with the seen and the unseen.'

Archbishop Trench in a few terse lines thus sketches a contrast between two opposite frames of mind :—

"Some murmur when their sky is clear

And wholly bright to view,

It one small speck of dark appear

In their great heaven of blue;

And some with thankful love are filled

If but one streak of light,

One ray of God's good mercy, gild

The darkness of the night."

May we be of the latter class. Let us lift our drooping heads and think of our merciful palliations, as well as of innumerable surviving blessings, sunny patches of light gleaming in the shrouded valleys. Truly, says Mrs. Barrett Browning—

"The blue of heaven is larger than the cloud."

Few are unable to tell thus of sweet drops in the cup of sorrow. To name but one, though a frequent experience, the advent of the sympathetic friend who comes as the angel did to Peter's prison, causing the chain to fall, the cell-door to open, and the light of heaven to gladden (Acts 12:7). Then, the beloved absent, themselves, have a claim to be heard from the silent Land, rebuking the tears that would weep a premature departure. Many a Patroclus of Iliad fame is taken from us, regarding whom it may be said, " that in the very thick of the fight the God darkened his eyes, dashed down his shield, loosed his corslet, and shattered his spear!" But for their sakes let the bright epitaph be sufficient—" His work was done." Yes, I repeat, "for their sakes " every redundant, unsubmissive sigh should be suppressed. It is a fine resolve to live for them and their memories—to seek to perpetuate in our homes what they would have liked: to become heirs to whatever in their lives was worthy. Above all, to rise to the consciousness and conviction that for them the departure was " far better ":—

"Sorrow vanquished, labor ended, Jordan passed."

Nay, more, by a wise provision, they may have been possibly "taken away from the evil to come." Their pure hearts to be vexed no more with the rough ways, the strain and stress of life. They have vanished in the azure of the midday sky, before the lowering stormclouds of the afternoon have set in. Let us bless God for the brief loan; and though but a negative comfort, and subordinate to loftier themes of solace, let us feel with our great poet and mental analyst:—

"'Tis better to have loved and lost,

Than never to have loved at all."

God may have, assuredly He has, other ministries in store—higher, better. The thought ought to calm the grief of many a parent—" The Lord hath need of him " (Mark 11:3). He, the great Giver and Father, " needs " that the earthly services be transferred to the realms of the glorified.

"Think, when some sunny spot in those bright fields Needs the fair presence of an added flower, Down sweeps a starry angel in the night;

At morn the rose has vanished from our bower."

H. B. Stowe.

Then, afflicted one, do not fail to ponder, as an essential part of the "mercy," the result of bereavement on your own soul. Can you not well lift it out of the category of " judgment," if it has been the means of more closely linking you by a golden chain to heaven? How often have the voices of the departed stolen down in the soft whisper of celestial love, saying, in the words of the Apocalyptic vision—" Come up hither!" That sorrow and severance have given you a new interest in the "Better Country," flooding your horizon, as never before, with dreams of your loved ones there. As a Christian poet in one of his elegies puts it:—

"Tis something to a heart like mine,

To think of Thee as loving yet;

To feel that such a light as Thine

Could not in utter darkness set."

And not only your departed, but the God of your departed is no more the dim abstraction He so long was; but the living, loving Father, binding together the Church of earth and the Church of the glorified. Adore the great Chastener, if you have been led with greater fervency to sing that "Excelsior "-song which has elevated and invigorated many a Faint-heart:—

"Nearer my God to Thee—

Nearer to Thee,

E'en though it be a cross

That raiseth me;

Still all my song shall be,

Nearer my God to Thee—

Nearer to Thee!"

"Whoso is wise, and will observe these things, even they shall understand the lovingkindness of the Lord" (Psalm 107:43).

God give to every mourner the consoling assurance that these judgments are really, if the broken heart would believe it, mercies in disguise. It is thus He disciplines you. "The Lord is known by the judgment He executeth," "Zion shall be redeemed with judgemnt." The hardiest trees are not reared in hot-houses, but where they can battle with wind and tempest—" moored in the rifted rock." The best seamanship is nurtured and displayed not in land-locked harbors, but out amid the buffeting waves—the midnight storm and darkness. This is the history of many a voyager on the sea of life, recognizing alike "mercy and judgment" and the great hereafter for which they are conjointly training him :—

"There was a soul on eve autumnal sailing,

Beyond the earth's dark bars,

Toward the land of sunsets never paling,

Towards heaven's sea of stars.

*****

"The glooms and gleams, the calmness and the strife,

Were death behind him, and before him, life."

Bishop Alexander.

Leave to God your unknown future. Only trust Him that when new trials overtake you, He will not suffer them to be without alleviations. "He stayeth His rough wind in the day of His east wind." Glorify Him, meanwhile, by calm submission; looking forward to the hour when your present wavering wills will be entirely merged and absorbed in His; when our motto-verse will no longer be needed; when it will require to be re-cast; Judgment will cease to be spoken of together with Mercy. The song of the wilderness will become, with unfaltering note, the song of eternity ;—" O give thanks unto the Lord, for He is good; for His mercy endureth for ever!" Then at least it will be acknowledged, what cannot be owned or discerned now, that mercy and judgment have formed the varying threads, somber and brilliant, in the heavenly embroidery which is being weaved—both needed to produce the harmonious whole. When the garment is completed, here is the description of the perfect Church in the presence of her King, and of each individual member:—" Upon Thy right hand did stand the queen in vesture of gold, wrouglit about with divers colors" (Psalm 45:10, Prayer Book Version).

"And It Shall Come To Pass In That Day, That The Light Shall Not Be With BrightNess And With Gloom: But It Shall Be One Day Which Is Known Unto The Lord; Not Day And Not Night: But It Shall Come To Pass That At Evening Time There Shall Be

LIGHT" (R.V.).

TWENTY-NINTH DAY EVERLASTING LIGHT AND UNCHANGING LOVE. "Gbe Xoro went before them bg nigbt in a pillar of fire."

"Thy sun shall no more go down; neither shall thy moon withdraw itself: for the Lord shall be thine everlasting light, and the days of thy mourning shall be ended."—Isaiah 60:20.

"Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and today, and for ever."— Hebrews 13:8.

THE first of these verses speaks of Heaven. The Pillar of the desert ceases to shine, in its symbolic or sacramental form, when earth's wilderness wanderings terminate; but only to be rekindled with more effulgent, diviner permanence: —"The Lord shall be thine everlasting light." A glory not provisionary—temporary—through human infirmity and human tribulation at times blurred and obscured :—no transient meteor-blaze, but " as the stars for ever and ever." Yes, in the midst of deepest sorrow, the words remove our thoughts from the fugitive present to the bliss of an endless future; above all to God Himself, "our exceeding joy." Present vicissitude, partial light, restricted knowledge, are contrasted with undimmed radiance—" the glass darkly " exchanged for " face to face." The unreached ideals of life at last are attained. The weary soul is rocked asleep in the peace of Paradise: "There remaineth therefore a rest for the people of God!"

Reader, your experience is now very different; it is that of setting suns and waning moons and expunged stars. You never dreamt of this blight and ruin of your dearest earthly hopes. Many preachers and soothsayers read in your hearing homilies on the transience of life, the brief and uncertain tenure of its blessings, the suddenness and certainty of death. You deemed that all this might be true in the case of others, but you put the unwelcome—the seeming impossible theme far from yourself. Your inward comment was that of the doubters in Ezekiel's days—" Ah, Lord God! doth he not speak parables?" (Ezekiel 20:49). "Tomorrow shall be as today and much more abundant." In such supposed immunity from trial you are now sternly undeceived. The enduring column of granite has been suddenly rent to its base; the life-dream vanished.

Vividly does Wordsworth describe what human pillars are, to which we have looked for heart and hope, guidance and permanency :—

"Which when they should maintain themselves aloft

Want due consistence: like a pillar ot smoke

That with majestic energy from earth ,

Rises, but, having reached the thinner air,

Melts and dissolves and is no longer seen I"

The hour does gradually come when a better Pillar discloses itself. Time and submission do their gracious work; and you are slowly led to turn from a vain brooding over the temporary and the perishable, to the enduring and eternal. Sweetly does the thought of the Home that knows no change come to brighten these desolating earthly "memories, taking you away from the tabernacle that has been "dissolved," to the inheritance "incorruptible, undefiled, unfading in the heavens."

Turn we now to the second, the collateral verse which we have deemed it well to link with the other. It is a revelation of the immutable Savior, "Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and today, and for ever." Not only the promise of His glorified presence in the world of everlasting light (" the Lamb is the Light thereof"), but with us now— leading us in the wilderness "all the night with a light of fire." How the " love beyond a brother's" steals into the crevices of the shattered earthly home and heart! He is "the same"—the same in every human experience, in joy and in sorrow, in youth and in age, in poverty and in wealth, amid marriage chimes and funeral bells. Whether the path of life be draped with flowers or strewn with cypresses, His voice of unchanging and unchangeable faithfulness rings its echoes—" Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world" (Matt, 28:20). Who, that know what the hour of bereavement is, have not at times conjured the thought of the spirits of departed friends hovering over them—unseen presences as of angel-forms, peopling dreams by night, and consecrating haunts by day—the invisible companions still of the pilgrimage. As the gates of the morning open, in the hush of eventide, at the holy table of communion, or at the hour of solemn prayer, they seem to reveal themselves! This, after all, is only a pleasing possibility. It may be nothing better than a fond phantasm and illusion. We cannot tell. Not so is it with Him. He is ever with us; and never so close to us as in the deep midnight of grief; keeping tryst in the house of sorrow and the chamber of death; whispering to the aching ear and the aching soul His own lullaby of assured peace and unforgetting love— "Come unto Me, ye heavy-laden ones, and I will give you rest."

And He is still "that same Jesus." Changed indeed in His outward condition. The once Man of Sorrows—the Pilgrim of pilgrims is now seated on His throne wearing a glorified humanity. But His heart knows no change. To use words I have elsewhere written, but which are appropriate to the present volume:—

"On the return of Moses to the spot in the Sinai desert, the bush which he first saw burning with fire was probably visible no more. He would look for it in vain. But the sacred flame in which it was formerly enveloped still lived in the spiral column which rose up before him by night. Christ in His human nature—Christ, the lowly bush of the desert—" the tender plant"—" the root out of a dry ground,"—Christ in His humiliation, " manifest in the flesh," we can see no more. But the Pillar of Fire remains. The Invisible Redeemer, touched with the feeling of our infirmities and sorrows, still lives and loves" (The Shepherd and His Flock, p. 85).

Do you remember His last revelation of Himself to a trembling, terror-stricken soul? It was, above all, as the Man. His words from the throne— emanating from a light "above the brightness of the sun," were not, " I am the Son of God," but " I am Jesus of Nazareth " (Acts 17:8). My crown and glorification have not obliterated My sympathies. I love to be known as once the dweller in a village of earthly Galilee—the Son of Mary, the Son of a carpenter, the Son of toil, the Son who knew well what the pulsation of a human soul is in its joys and above all in its agonies; who had the shadow of the cross projected every hour, every moment, in that lowly home. It is "Jesus of Nazareth," the fellow-Sufferer, who has the message waiting for thee, "I will show him how great things he must suffer for My name's sake!" Mourners, rejoice that that same Jesus has planned and ordered all

that befalls you. The crisis-hours—the tempestuous hours of existence are His appointment:—He your infallible Leader—Conductor, going before you, present with you in the storm and stress of battle; the fiery Pillar during your desert marchings, when the sky is lowering above, and the simoom and tornado, in wild chaos, are making havoc of cherished encampments around. The words are as true now as they were of Israel's experience which they first described, " In all their afflictions He was afflicted, and the Angel of His presence saved them: in His love and in His pity He redeemed them; and He bare them, and carried them all the days of old " (Isaiah 63:9).

He will be with you and yours in life and in its trials; He will, above all, be with you and yours in the hour of death. "We put our foot through the darkness and feel the Rock beneath." You may have heard the saying of an aged Christian, when asked if he ever was troubled at the thought of death. "Yes," was his reply, " I tremble sometimes on the Rock, but the Rock cannot tremble under me."

"Whate'er may change, in Him no change is seen,

A glorious Sun that wanes not nor declines;

Above the clouds and storms He walks serene,

And sweetly on His people's darkness shines.

All may depart, I fret not nor repine,

While I my Savior's am, and He is mine."

LyU.

In the only true, divine way of rising above your trial, seek to be able to avow in the sweet spirit of the same minstrel sufferer :—

"Let good or ill befall,

It must be good for me,

Secure of having Thee in all,

Of having all in Thee."

Let Him come in the place of your vanished dear ones. Make Him, as they once were, the center of your life and being; so that when earthly loves have been removed, you may be able to say with increasing confidence of the Brother in your nature who has filled the vacant niche in your heart-temple, "Lord, Thou knowest all things, Thou knowest that I love Thee." "I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him" (2 Timothy 1:12). No desolating wave which has swept away your earthly moorings, can ever separate you from the love of Christ. "Such a friendship is sure and lasting, not merely held fast by the 'silver cord of life,' which may be snapped in a moment, but embedded (the Anchor) in the cleft of the Rock for ever" {Hedley Vicars). Thus, when the final night-shades gather, when life's working time is over, the curfew tolling for the putting out of the fires and the folding of the flocks, happy ye who are ending the desert march with the glow of the unchanging Pillar, the days of your mourning ended, and the bells of heaven ringing their unceasing chime:—

"there Shall Be No Night There." "the Darkness Is Past, And The True Light Now Shineth."

THIRTIETH DAY THE GLORIOUS RETURN. "Gbe Xoro went before them bg nigbt in a ptllat of Are."

"I will come again, and receive you unto Myself; that where I am, there ye may be also."—John 14:3.

"My soul waiteth for the Lord more than they that watch for the morning: I say, more than they that watch for the morning."— Psalm 130:6.

WE have seen in the previous meditation that the column of flame—the symbol of God's earthly presence in the midst of His Israel's darkest night, will, at the end of the journey, be superseded by a brighter, better radiance:— "They shall see His face.…And they need no light of lamp—(no fiery pillar), neither light of sun, for the Lord God shall give them light" (Revelation 22:4, 5. R.V.). He, who, to the future conductor of the Hebrew host, appeared " in a flame of fire out of the midst of the bush," has promised to come, (it matters little whether in Advent-glory or at the hour of death), to receive you unto Himself, that where He is, there ye may be also. That Coming speaks of the end of wilderness discipline, the termination of the varied prophetic figures— floods and streams— sand-storms and mocking mirage by day, drenching dews and chill by night. Every jagged rock, and flinty stone, and barren steppe, and savage cliff will be surmounted, every spiritual foe vanquished—no more Egyptian plagues at the outset, no more Mount Hors and Pisgahs with their mysterious sepultures at the close. No longer tried and trusted friends—venerable and trusted leaders missed from the ranks —the drift of oblivion covering their graves; but received by the King within His abiding "mansions" (John 14:2).

Moreover, admitted not to His presence only, but, as our motto-verse indirectly intimates, restored to our departed. His words are—"that where I am, there YE (the re-gathered and in-gathered family of the new heaven and the new earth) may be also."

Gracious keepsake for His Church and people of every age! It was first spoken to His orphaned disciples in their hour of trouble (John 14:1). It is a legacy to the lonely and suffering and sorrow-stricken of all time. With the assurance of our loved ones safely landed above—and with the Pillar-cloud below in view, let us listen to a sweet singer:—

"Dear Friend, we will not drift too far

'Mid billows, fogs, and blinding foam,

To see Christ's beacon—like a star

That guides us home.

• . • * * #

"Thence onward, and for ever on,

To summits piled on summits bright,

The lost are found! And we have won

Their Land of Light."

L. Larcom.

Does not this " blessed hope," the glorious appearing (with His risen saints) of the great God our Savior, reconcile you to your present night of gloom? Let your " Light of fire,"—in other words, your realized consciousness of a Savior's presence and promises, be a pledge of " the full and perfect consummation." "The Admiral gave orders that the sails should be close reefed and the lead kept going, and that they should sail slowly, being afraid of breakers and shoals—feeling certain that the first gleam of daybreak would discover land under their bows" (Lamartine's Columbus). Give to that earthly picture a heavenly meaning. Go onwards, joyfully anticipating the assured daydawn; when all tender mysteries clouding your present outlook will be dispersed—" My soul waiteth for the Lord more than they that watch for the morning: I say, more than they that watch for the morning." Already the streaks may be seen on the horizon—already the Advent-bell, like its type and symbol which in the Convent of the Sinai wilderness greets the travelers of the lower world, may be faintly heard in the distance. Welcome it as the summons to join the festal throng in the Eternal Sanctuary.

"Hail and farewell 1 We go our way;

Where shadows end, we trust in light;

The star that ushers in the night

Is herald also of the day."

God took His servant Elijah of old from the banks of Jordan up to Heaven " in a chariot of fire." This, child of sorrow, may possibly be also your experience—the fires of suffering may follow you to the last; as if they would encompass the very chariot of salvation. That which is the recognized symbol of the Divine Presence is also the Bible symbol of " suffering affliction." Some are called, in a figurative sense, through flames to enter the gates of glory, "saved, yet so as by fire." It is enough to know that God is alike in the Pillar and in the Chariot. He leads you by this "light of fire" till night's deepest darkness is past and the morning-glory dawns. "This God is our God for ever and ever: He will be our Guide even unto death " (Psalm 48:14). "He bringeth out to light the shadow of death" (Job 12:22). "We went through fire and through water, but Thou broughtest us out into a wealthy place " (Psalm 66:12). How Samuel Rutherford, the tried sufferer of a past century, responded to these and similar anticipations—" the joy that cometh in the morning!" His well-known words are thus rendered by a sympathetic hand:—

"The morning now is breaking,

The night will soon be o'er,

I am kneeling on the threshold,

My hand is on the door.

"I am ldnging for the Master

To bid me rise and come,

To the glory of His presence

To the gladness of His Home."

You are like the disciples of old on the Lake of Tiberias—weary and disconsolate after their night of unrecompensed toil—with sadder thoughts burdening your souls. But you can see, by the eye of faith, that unchanging Lord and Master standing on the heavenly, as He did then on the earthly shore—with the banquet of love made ready, and addressing you with the same word of welcome— "Children !"—" Where I am there ye may be also." "I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from you." They are the words of the philosophic Paul Desjardins, one of the leaders, if not the leader of the higher thought in France in the present day:— "I discern at least by glimpses, the direction in which the light must break, and I am making towards it. Thus I live climbing through a steep and gloomy forest, towards the quarter from which the light comes: and it cannot deceive me, though the tangle of this complicated life may often hide it from me. What brings me nearer to it, is my going on." Yes, reader, your present midnight will inspire you with all the more ardent longing for the great Epiphany; waking within you

the slumbering heart-chords—" Let me go, for the day breaketh!" "Make haste, my Beloved! Be Thou like to a roe or to a young hart upon the mountain of spices!"

"A little while for patient vigil keeping,

To face the storm, to wrestle with the strong,

A little while to sow the seed with weeping,

Then bind the sheaves, and sing the Harvest Song:

* * * * #

"A little while to keep the oil from failing;

A little while faith's flickering lamp to trim;

And then, the Bridegroom's coming footsteps hailing,

To greet His advent with the bridal hymn!"

"IN THE MORNING WATCH THE LORD LOOKED THROUGH THE PILLAR OF FlRE."

THIRTY-FIRST DAY. THE BORDER RIVER.

"Zbe Xoro went before them bg nigbt in a pillar of fire."

"Behold, the ark of the Covenant of the Lord of all the earth passeth over before you into Jordan."—Joshua 3:11.

"And the king said unto him, Come thou over with me, and I will feed thee with me in Jerusalem."—2 Samuel 19:33.

THE theme of this meditation may seem a step backward from the preceding; but I have purposely retained it as an appropriate one with which to close our volume.

The wilderness Pillar was undeviating in its guidance to the end. This "palladium" of the Hebrew host never failed in "giving light by night to these" till Jordan was reached.

We can picture it as it moved silently, majesti" cally through the hills of Moab—from upland to upland, from ridge to ridge, from valley to valley—the pioneer of the mighty multitude, till its fiery splendor was seen for the last time. It had for forty long years shot up its column to the heavens. Now that its mission is accomplished, it ceases to shine. Its sacramental purpose is no more needed.

Yet, in another sense, it was more needed than ever. If the visible symbol be removed, is there no guarantee for further Divine guidance at this final crisis-hour? When the river—the arrowy river rushing through its gorges—(for Jordan was in full flood) was seen by the pilgrim tribes, the question must have naturally passed from lip to lip—' How are we to cross the impetuous barrier?' Joshua calms their fears with the inspiring assurance, "Behold, the ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth passeth over before you into Jordan."

Believer, with you also, in a true anti-typical sense, the border-river may now, or ere long, be within sight. For yourself—(more possibly for some one near and dear to you) there is a gradual or near approach to the end of the pilgrimage. It is a new experience. In the words of Joshua uttered at the same historic hour, "Ye have not passed this way heretofore" (Joshua 3:4). It is the night of nights—night in its deepest darkness. You may try to invent euphemisms to dim and mitigate the gloom. It is nevertheless too surely, too awfully, the advent of the King of terrors. But if by grace served heir to the hopes and promises of the Gospel, that final passage is not traversed alone. Your Savior-God (Joshua-Jesus) gives a corresponding assurance—a better counterpart to that of Israel's commander—" Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world" (Matt, 28:20). "I am the first and the last" (Revelation 1:17). He will be true to His own covenant word, "Fear not, for I am with thee" (Isaiah 43:2). Nay, more, not only does He conduct thee through the stream, but He has Himself forded it. He knows what death and the grave are. He surrendered Himself to both, a voluntary captive. As He, the Incarnate Redeemer, the Divine Son of Man, has shared every wilderness experience of His people, so also this closing one. "Fear not: I am He that liveth and was dead" (Revelation 1:18). 'Can you dread,' He seems to say, 'to pass what I have encountered before you? With Me at your side you will go over dry shod. I have sanctified that hour of departure by My own. By My dying, the tomb has been transfigured. The gate of the grave has been made the gate of Heaven. I have "abolished death, and brought life and immortality to light!"

Believer! when the wilderness journey is about to end—the better Canaan in sight, take God to witness, as did the Hebrew leader, "There hath not failed one word of all His good promise which He promised" (1 Kings 8:56). "The light of fire " has been " all the night"; it has never dimmed. The faithfulness of Jehovah in the past is a pledge that He will not forsake you now. He who guaranteed special provision for the roughest part of the way (Deuteronomy 33:25) will not forget you in the supreme hour of all. And when the guiding column fails, it is only to be superseded by "the glory that excelleth." You will not need the Shadow where you have the Substance. You will not need the Satellites where you have the Sun. You will not need the Symbol where you have the all-glorious Reality. In the words of a recent theme of meditation—" God Himself shall be with them, and be their God." The invitation will then be true regarding every ransomed Israelite, in a far higher and nobler sense than when uttered to the aged Gilead chief by the brink of the literal Jordan—" And the king said unto him, Come thou over with me, and I will feed thee WITH ME in Jerusalem."

Wondrous must have been the spectacle in that final hour of the Hebrew march—the goal of the desert wanderings. Already some had pitched their tents amid the acacias and palm-groves which studded the plain beyond, nigh to the Valley of Achor and the walls of Jericho. But the safety of all was secured: alike manhood in its strength; infancy in its feebleness; age in its decrepitude. The crossing was completed, doubtless with an Epinikion—a hymn of victory, similar to that which resounded on the Red Sea shores. Thus will it be with the army of the Redeemed— "the multitude which no man can number "! The Great Captain of Salvation will not only be their Faithful Protector and Guide, but He will secure .that however varied their bygone experience, there will be a glorious meeting at last, as individuals and families, in "scenes beyond the flood,"—" the fields of living green." And so all Israel shall be saved (Romans 11:26).

Ye who are laid on beds of hopeless suffering, wait patiently amid the experiences of " death's dark night," till the sentinel footsteps are heard with tidings of the dawn. Pain, weakness, and languor, inseparable from the closing hour, may be yours, or that of those by whose couch you are keeping sacred watch. But though an enemy confronts you, it is the last enemy. It is but the boom of the breakers telling that the voyage is ending and the heavenly shore is at hand. St. John in Patmos, as he listened to the blast of trumpets and beheld the outpouring of vials—in the hush and interlude of the great drama, heard a voice saying, "Write; Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord." Be it yours to subscribe the inspired beatitude. Feeling that "to die is gain," let this be your prayer and calm resolve—"All the days of my appointed time, (or as rendered in the Revised Version, "of my warfare,") would I wait till my release come."

"Now we pitched our final tent,

The desert journey done:

The glorious hills of the Better Land

Gleam'd in the setting sun.

"The great and terrible river

Which we stood by night to view

Is left far off in the darkness,

For the Lord has brought us through."

Meanwhile, with memories of the goodness and mercy that have followed you all the days of your life—a wilderness-vista of these, you can take up the great song of the ages, "the Song of the Valley," the most familiar of all inspired words, with their rhythmic music:—" I will fear no evil, for Thou art with me. Thy rod and Thy staff they comfort me." It is, at best, but a brief transit. It is only the shadow of death. The substance—the terribleness has been taken away by Him who announced in a note of prophetic triumph, " I will ransom them from the power of the grave, I will redeem them from death. O death, I will be thy plagues, O grave, I will be thy destruction." "With that staff," said an aged pilgrim, speaking of the revealed Christ of the Bible with His supporting grace—"will I pass over this Jordan."

"My work is done; I lay me down to die.

Weary and travel-worn I long for rest.

Speak but the word, dear Master, and I fly,

A dove let loose, to nestle in Thy breast.

"It is enough, dear Master—yea, Amen!

1 will not breathe one murmur of reply.

Only fulfill Thy work in me, and then

Call me, and bid me answer, 'Here am I.'"

Bishop of Exeter.

O God, when the terminating hour of the pilgrimage comes to me, or comes to those I love, shine upon us through the flaming Pillar! I seek no other funeral torch but this. Let it prove what a lighthouse often is in " crossing the bar " of some earthly harbor, when friends are disclosed on the pier waving their welcome. Yes, the thought of reunion after long years of separation, will joyfully mingle with other supreme visions of the Home hereafter, and God will be found true to His word, "the God not of the dead but of the living."

"We must not doubt, or fear, or dread,

That love for life is only given,

And that the calm and sainted dead

Will meet unrecognized in Heaven;

But that which makes this life so sweet

Shall make eternal joy complete."

Was it a cheering thought to the Hebrews, that once on the Canaan side, their feet touched the land made sacred by the names of the patriarchs— the pilgrim fathers of their nation sleeping in the not distant cave of Machpelah? What, O child of promise, will be your joy, when, the border-river left behind, you come not only to share the Presence of the King in Jerusalem, but also to recognize sainted ones gone before you; and, as a member of the family of the glorified, sit down with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of Your Father?

May the fugitive meditations of the foregoing pages carry with them a few balm-words of comfort to those who may stand much in need of such. Pausing once more under the Column of Fire:— or rather, with the last gleam of the Pillar reflected in the gloomy waters, and with our faces and footsteps turned to the City of the living God, let us sing the final, triumphant note—"Death is swallowed up in VICTORY."

"and They All Passed Over Jordan By Morning Light."

