# Preface

Nothing is more helpful in Christian living than the habit of getting a verse or phrase of Scripture into the mind and heart in th emorning. Its influence stays through all the day, weaving itself into all the day's thoughts and words and experiences. It is to help in this practical way that this little book has been prepared. For each morning of the year a word of Scripture is set down, with a brief meditation which may help to fix it in the mind and suggest its application to the life of the day. No definite order has been followed in the arrangement of these meditations. "Every scrtipure inspired of God is also profitable."

J.R.M.

# January 1

In the beginning God. – Genesis 1:1

Everything should begin with God. His should be the first voice we hear each morning, calling us to awake and set forth on the day's journey.

We should begin each new year with God. We write in all our dates, A.D., Anno Domini, the your of our Lord. If these are years of our Lord, we should make them really such. It is not enough to write Christ's name on the years; we should make sure that He is in all the year's life–its business, its pleasures, its friendships, its work and play. To start thea year with God will give us a heavenly impulse which will make the whole year mean more to us. One wrote at New Year: "I wish you a vision of God that shall make you eager to guide others to the place of vision; a vision of yourself that shall give you charity for the weakness of others; a vision of others that shall reveal their virtues more than their faults; a vision of life that shall make you eager to work, willing to endure, patient in waiting, a master of self and a servant of all."

# January 2

Thou shalt remember all the way which the Lord thy God led thee. – Deuteronomy 8:2

Memory is a wonderful power. It is a storehouse in which we keep the records of the experiences of our lives. An angel, with invisible ink, writes on a scroll the story of all our days, the things we do, the things of our thoughts. We make our memories for ourselves, writing our own records.

The children are told that the murmuring they hear when they hold a shell to their ears is the echo of the sea's moaning and roar, hiding away in the shell's chambers from the days when it lay on the shore. The music we hear in our hearts, as life goes on, is the treasured echoes of our own life in the days that are gone. The practical suggestion from this is that if we would make our life-music sweet and harmonious, we must live beautifully, purely, unselfishly, helpfully. Sins of youth make bitter memories for after-years. The secret of a happy old age is a well-watched life from childhood. Any unguarded hour may leave a memory which will sadden all the after years.

# January 3

Forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before. – Philippians 3:13

We ought not to live in the past. No matter how full of blessing and good it is, we may not stay in it. Life is before us, never behind us. If we linger, we shall lose our place, and our fellows will press on and leave us. 

The best way to live for tomorrow is to do well the work of today; yet the future should always exert an inspiring influence upon us. In the time of discouragement it is the hope of overcoming that brings cheer.

When we are in sorrow it is the promise of comfort that sustains us. In the taskwork of schooldays it is the thought of what manhood will bring of achievement that inspires the student. In the struggles of earthly life it is the larger life of heaven that keeps the heart brave and strong.

We hould let the past go, with all it contains of memory and of good, while we turn ever to the future, with hope and courage.

# January 4

Commit thy way unto the Lord; trust also in Him; and He shall bring it to pass. – Psalm 37:5

Our affairs are forever getting tangled, like threads in a child's hands, and we cannot straighten out the tangles ourselves. We cannot see how anything beautiful or good can come out of our poor living or our feeble striving. Our days are full of disappointments, and our night's rest is broken by anxieties. Yet it is the Christian's privilege to commit all his life's tangels into the hands of Jesus Christ. He can take our broken things and build them up into beauy.

One of the finest windows in a great cathedral is said to have been made out of the fragments of broken glass which the workmen had thrown away as worthless. A skillful hand gathered them up and wrought them into lovely form. Christ can take our failures, our mistakes, our follies, our fragments of living, even our sins, and make them into beautiful life and character.

# January 5

I the Lord thy God will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not; I will help thee. – Isaiah 41:5

As a father holds the hand of his little child when it walks, so God holds the hand of His children while they walk in the world's ways. God is ever walking alongside of us. We cannot fail if God is holding our hand. William Canton writes:

\startpoem
Hold Thou my hands!
In grief and joy, in hope and fear,
Lord, let me feel that Thou art near:
Hold Thou my hands!

If e'er by doubts
Of Thy good Fatherhood depressed,
I cannot find in Thee my rest,
Hold Thou my hands!

Hold Thou my hands–
These passionate hands, too quick to smite,
These hands so eager for delight–
Hold Thou my hands!

And when at length,
With darkened eyes and fingers cold,
I seek some last loved hand to hold,
Hold Thou my hands!
\stoppoem

# January 6

Because thou … hast not asked for thyself long life; neither hast thou asked for richers for thyself, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies. – 1 Kings 3:11

It is interesting to notice the things God was pleased that Solomon had not chosen. One was long life. Long life is not the most desirable things among God's gifts. The completest life ever lived on this earth was only three and thirty years in length.

Riches was another thing Solomon had not chosen. No doubt, if the choice were offered, many would choose money before all things else. There is a Russian legend of one who entered a diamond mine in search of riches. He filled his pockets with gems, and then, as he went on, threw them away to make room for the larger gems he found. At length he became thirsty, but there was no water. He heard the flow of rivers, but when he came to them they were rivers of gems. At what seemed the sound of a waterfall, he hastened forward, only to find a cascade of diamonds. With all this wealth round him, he was dying of thirst.

# January 7

Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues of life. – Proverbs 4:23

Everyone carries in himself the elements of his own happiness or wretchedness. It is the heart that gies color to our skies and tone to the music we hear. A badly kept heart makes pain for the life. A well-lived life stores away memories which make celestial music to cheer the declining years.

Norman McLeod said: "Nothing makes a man so contented as an experience gathered from a well-watched past." We can insure full happiness only by living no day whose memory will make us ashamed or give us pain, when we sit in the eventide and recall it.

The time to secure a "well-watched past" is while the early days of life are fleeting. We never can change any yesterday. An unholy life yields a harvest of wretchedness in old age. But a life of obedience to God, of faithfulness to duty, of personal purity and uprightness, and of unselfish, Christ-like service, will make old age like a garden of fruit and flowers.

# January 8

Whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus. – Colossians 3:17

Our common work has a great influence in shaping our character. One whose business it is to inspect the work of others, watching mercilessly for errors and flaws, needs to guard himself sedulously, or the critical spirit, so important in his work, will find its way into all his life. 

A lady once said to Hogarth that she wished to learn how to draw caricature.

"Alas! it is not a faculty to be envied," replied the great master of art.

"Take my advice, and never draw caricture. By the long practice of it I have lost the enjoyment of beauty. I never see a face but distorted, and never have the satisfaction to behold the human face divine."

A similar word of caution is needed by all of us, lest our daily occupation and habit influence us in our way of looking at the lives about us. The way to escape the danger is to be full of unjudging love.

# January 9

The ark of the Lord continued in the house of Obed-edom… and the Lord blessed Obed-edom, and all his household. – 2 Samuel 6:11

The same ark which wrought disaster when irreverently touched now brought blessing to a home in which it was received with love. This fragment of history from the olden days suggests to us the blessing of true religion in a home.

Some people think it would be a loss and a hindrance to recieve Christ into a house. It would stop some pleasures. It would drive out some amusements. It would interfere with some ambitions. BUt those who open their doors to Christ will always be rewarded. Religion blesses a home. It sweetens the home life, enriches the home affections, deepens the home joys, lightens and comforts the home sorrows. It brings true prosperity, for the blessing of the Lord maketh rich. It brings protection, for the angel of the Lord encamps round about them that fear Him. It opens a door between the earthly home and the heavenly, and God's angels come and go in gentle ministries.

# January 10

A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver. – Proverbs 25:11

It is well to form the habit of saying kindly things. Sincere words of commendation help all true men and women to live more worthily and to achieve better things. They should be spoken, too, while people live. Kind words come too late when they are held back till death has closed the ears and chilled the heart, when words cannot avail to comfort or help.

Too many people speak the wrong words, too–words that hurt, that fall on sensitive feelings like frost on the flowers. They thoughtlessly allude to matters which are of painful interest. THey stir up sad or bitter memories in those who are trying to forget them. They lack the tact whicha lways turns conversation into pleasant channels. 

We should all learn the art of pleasant speech. It is not a matter of elocution or grammar–it is a matter of heart culture. Love must be the inspirer, and there must be the grace of thoughtfulness in word and tone.

# January 11

The path of the just is as the shining light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day. – Proverbs 4:18

Christian old age should be beautiful. It should have the mellowness of autumn, after the heat and toil of summer. Youth has its beauty, and so has manhood, but there is a loveliness in good old age which is more winning that aught in any other period of life.

There is a beauty Youth can never know,
With all the lusty radiance of his prime,
A beauty the sole heritage of time,
That gilds the fabric with a sunset glow,
That glorifies the work it soon lays low!
There is a charm in age, well-night sublime
That lends new lustre to the poet's rhyme,
As mountain peaks are grander crowned with snow.
How gay the laught of youth! But, oh, how brave
The stately weakness of a reverend age!

# January 12

The merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver. – Proverbs 3:14

There is something that gives better returns than silver or gold in the world's markets. It is better to be wise than to be rich. A proper use of wisdom yields larger and better gains than the best use of money. Wisdom increases continually in the lifeo f him who possesses it.

Take the wisdom of trusting God, and how experience enlarging it! The timid faith of today becomes the heroic confidence of tomorrow.

Or take the wisdom of loving others. Only begin it and practice it, and your heart will expand and your hand will acquire new skill in ministering. Many a young person with only a commonplace life, by simply beginning in a small way to help others and do good, has at length attained a measure of helpfulness that is simply amazing.

A sailor boy brought home to his mother a little flower from some foreign land, and all the fuchsias in England are the harvest from that little kindness.

# January 13

What good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life? – Matthew 19:16

This young man had lived a good life. He stood high in the Church and among his neighbors. Then he came to CHrist with eagerness, and Jesus, when He saw him, loved him. But his money was his idol.

One Sunday morning a minister found on his pulpit a note reading, "The prayers of this congregation are desired for a man who is growing rich." There is no time when men really need more that their friends should pray for their souls, than when they are growing rich. Yet if the young ruler had used his money as the Master bade him to do, it would have done good to the poor, it would have become treasure laid up in heaven for the man, and Jesus would have had another follower. The disciples 
of Jesus used their money so as to make it a blessing. They left all for the sake of their Master. Jesus said, "Every one that hath left houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or children, or lands, for My name's sake, shall receive a hundredfold, and shall inherit eternal life." 

# January 14: The Lord hath need of them. – Matthew 21:3

Whatever of ours Jesus asks the use of we should give Him without question. He often wants to use money of ours in His work, and we should never refuse His request. He asks for the use of a book of ours which He wants to have sent to one of His hungry-hearted little ones, who needs just that book. The other day a reclining chair which had stood unused in a home for two years, since grandmother died, was rought out and sent to a sick man who needed it.

The true temples of God are human hearts in which God would make His home. But sometimes there is no room for Him. In the Temple at Jerusalem Jesus found men doing things that desecrated the place, and He drove them out. He comes to us and would drive out of our hearts everything that defileth.

Jesus was disappointed that morning on His way to Jerusalem when, hungry, He went to the fig-tree for food. Is He ever disappointed when He comes to us hungry?

# January 15

Bring him hither to Me. – Matthew 18:17

Visions are given to prepare for takss. At the foot of the Transfiguration Mount a father was waiting with his distressed boy to have him healed. While we are sitting in rapture at the Lord's Supper somebody is outside with a great need. We do not know how often we fail to help those in need or trouble because we have not enough faith. Jesus is the strong Son of God, and there is nothing He cannot do.

We ought to make the most we can of our life and do all the good we can. It is wrong for any of us with our splendid abilities, to stay in "contented insignificance." The Master wants us to be great and to do great things. But there are mistaken opinions about what it is to be great. Jesus' disciples thought if they held high positions in the world they would be great. Jesus told them that childlikeness was the highest greatness. We are greatest when we are not aware of being great at all. Simplicity, trust, the absence of ambition, contentment–these are marks of greatness.

# January 16

Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? – Matthew 18:21

The Christian way, if one has done us an injury, is to go to him in the spirit of love and talk the matter over with him. Perhaps it is all a misunderstanding, needing only a word of explanation. We are probably as much to blame as the other person is when things go wrong between us and a neighbor.

There is so much bad in the best of us,
And so much good in the worst of us,
That it hardly behooves any of us
To talk about the rest of us.

Our forgiving is to be unlimited. THe rabbis taught that no one should forgive another more than three times. Peter thought he was making the limit great enough when he suggested that the Master's followers should forgive seven times. But Jesus swept away all counting of times, and said a Christian should forgive seventy times seven times.

# January 17

I have compassion on the multitude. – Matthew 15:32

No sickness could continue in Christ's presence. From far and near people came with their friends and neighbors–the blind, the lame, the dumb, and not one went away unhealed. Jesus is still the fountain of healing. He uses physicians and means, but He is always the Healer.

Jesus thought not only of people's spiritual needs, but also of their physical wants. The multitude had been three days with Him in the desert, where they could not buy food, and were very hungry. Jesus showed consideration for them–He could not send them away fasting. He did not create food enough to feed four thousand hungry men, but took what they had already and, blessing it, made it enough to supply all their want. We must do what we can, and the God will come and we shall be cared for. We should watch against the influence of wrong teaching. If we let the words of Christ stay in our hearts they will make our lives good, true, pure, holy, and loving.

# January 18

These are the things which defile a man. – Matthew 15:20

It is right to have clean hands, but it is more important to have a clean heart. Some people are most punctilious about minute ceremonies, while they pay small heed to the moralities of their lives. It is the inner life that makes character. A bad heart defiles eerything; it is a nest of unholy things.

A lady took a dead chlid's photograph and touched it with her brush until the little one seemed to live in the picture. But in a day or two the face was covered with blotches. There was something on the paper on which the picture had been taken which worked up through the colors and spoiled it. So in many a life there are bad qualities which work up through all outside manners and refinements, and spoil the beauty.

The Syrophenician woman knew she was in the presence of One who could heal her child, and she simply would not go away till she got her plea; her importunity prevailed upon Him. We give up too easily when the answer is slow in coming.

# January 19

When Jesus heard of it, He departed thence by ship into a desert place apart – Matthew 14:13

Jesus loved the Baptist, and was grieved when he died. He sought to get into a quiet place where He might receive God's comfort. Another reason for His going away was that His disciples might get rest. This shows the thoughtfulness of Jesus for His friends. He knows now when we are tired, when our work is too hard for us, or our hours are too long.

When Jesus reached the secluded place He found throngs waiting. Yet He was not impatient with them. He gave up His own rest and set to work at once to relieve their distresses and supply their wants.

The measure of a man's usefulness is the number of people who need him. We say that Christ alone can meet people's needs and feed their hungers. BUt He would do it through us. The only hands He has for love's ministries are our hands. The only bread He has for human hunger is the bread that is in our baskets. "Give ye them to eat." 

# January 20

Who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and brought it. – Matthew 13:46

We can well afford to give up all that we have to get Christ. If we recieve the whole world in place of Him, the exchange would be at a fearful loss to us. The only way to get the pearl of gerat price is to part with the other pearls we have. We cannot keep these and get that. Christ is not to be bought for money, and yet we have to give all we have to get Him. THe young ruler was told he must sell all he had and take Christ instead. He would not pay the price, and went away sorrowful.

Unbelief hinders even omnipotence. Jesus could not do many mighty works in Nazareth because of the unbelief of the people. His power ever waits on our faith. We do not know what blessings we keep from others by not believing. John the Baptist's death seemed untimely. But he did all that he was sent into the world to do. Each life has its own plan of God, something given it to do. When that is done it is time to die. 

# January 21

Behold, a sower went forth to sow – Matthew 13:3

We are all both sowers and fields. Our words, our acts, our influences, as we touch outher lives, become seeds. This is true not only of the good things that our lives scatter, but also of the evil. Then each life of ours is a little patch of ground on which other sowers are forever dropping seeds. Every person we talk with, every friendship we cherish, every book we read, sows seeds which will grow and help make the harvest of life for us. Christ is the great sower of good seed. He brings heavenly seeds to drop them or earthly soil.

We should not let ourselves be like the wayside, the beaten road. THe good seed has no chance to grow on such soil. We should keep our hearts soft to take each holy impression. We must watch the soil in our patch of ground to keep out the thorns, for if the evil roots are left the good seed will have no chance to grow, and the bad will choke out the good. We should make our hearts deep soil in which the good seed will grow to ripeness.

# January 22

When the Pharisees saw it, they said unto Him. – Matthew 12:2

Some people are always watching others, to find fault with them. They seem to think that their business is to keep other people right, and so they forget to look after the wrong things in themselves. We should never forget that our first duty is to do right ourselves. We shall not have to answer for anybody else, but for ourselves we surely shall.

The Sabbath is given to be a blessing to us, not a burden. God does not want us to go hungry on His day. He desires mercy, not sacrifice. The Jews thought Jesus broke the Sabbath in healing the man with the withered hand. But Jesus told them that it was right to heal on the sacred day. It is right for physicians to continue on their rounds of mercy on the Sabbath, and for nurses to stay at their posts with their patients. We need not be afraid to entrust our lives to CHrist, even if they are bruised and almost destroyed. No gentle, kindly surgeon ever had such skill in dealing with hurt lives, and He will restore us to beauty.

# Januray 23

Go and shew John again those things which ye do hear and see. – Matthew 11:4

Even the best men may sometimes doubt. John the Baptist, in his dungeon, began to wonder whether after all Jesus was the Messiah. The right thing to do with our doubts is to take them to Jesus. THat is what John did. Christ is very patient with our weakness, and makes plain to us the things that perplex us.

THe best evidences of Christ's divinty and Messiahship are the things that Christianity does in the world. Jesus proved to John that He was the Messiah by doing works of kindness to the poor and the troubled.

The fruits of Christianity are the wonderful works Christianity has done in the world–the saving of souls and the blessings that it leaves everywhere. It is a serious responsibility to have the gospel of Christ preached to us. If we accept the message, it brings great good to us. But if we reject it, it would have been better if we had never heard it at all. Christ invites all weary and overburdened ones to come to Him, and promises to give them rest.

# January 24 

It is enough for the disciple that he be as his master. – Matthew 10:25

Jesus does not promise His disciples an easy time. He endured suffering, and we cannot expect better treatment than our Master had. We may be sure always of divine protection.

The strange word about the numbering of the hairs of our head means that the smallest things in our lives are included in God's providence.

One of the greatest of Christ's words is that about confessing Him. He wants all His friends to let everybody know that they belong to Him and are on His side. This means more than joining the Church, or getting up in a Christian Endeavor meeting and saying, "I love Christ." We are to confess Him at our business, in society, among the worst people. The promise Jesus gave was that if we own Him in this world He will own us in the other world. It will be a great thing to have Christ ow nus on the Judgment Day. But we must own Him now, whatever the world says, whatever it may cost, if we would have Him confess us before His Father.

# January 25

These twelve Jesus sent forth. – Matthew 10:5

Jesus took twelve men and prepared them so that they could take up His work when He went away and carry it on. He wants all His followes to be apostles. THey must be disciples first, learners, and then apostles. We are not ready to go ut for Christ till He gives us authority over evil and power to do good. Someone gives this rule for life: "Make yourself good, and make other people happy." Some people try first to make others good, but we should begin with ourselves.

The apostles were to be the helpers of others in every way they could be. THey were to heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, cast out demons. Jesus gave them power to do all these things. He gives us power to do whatever He wants us to do. Jesus sent His disciples out amid dangers. We need never fear to go where Christ sends us. Sometimes the only way to save our life is to lose it.

'Tis man's perdition to be safe,
When for the the truth he ought to die.

# January 26

Come and lay Thy hand upon her, and she shall live. – Matthew 9:18

There is nothing that Jesus cannnot do. This ruler had not the slightest doubt that the Master could heal his dying child. We may have just as strong faith in Christ when any of ours are sick. If our friend dies, we know that that was the way of God's love for him. He could have spared his life if that had been best.

Much of Christ's work of love was wayside ministry. He was hastening with the ruler to heal his dying child when the woman touched His garment's hem.

Good people are always giving out help in even unconscious ways. As they go about performing their common tasks, those who come near them recieve help from merely touching the hem of their garments. Even Christ's power to heal and help waits on faith. The blind men cried, "Have mercy on us," but before He opened their eyes Jesus asked them, "Believe ye that I am able to do this?" If they had said "No", they would not have been cured. Many prayers of ours fail because we do not believe.

# January 27

If thou wilt, Thou canst. – Matthew 8:2

We get from Christ according to our faith. The leper said, "If Thou wilt, Thou canst." That was royal believing, and at once Jesus said, "I will." There was a splendid faith also in the centurion. He showed humility in not thinking himself worthy to have Jesus come under his roof, and faith in saying that a mere word of the Master's would be enough. The visit of Jesus to Peter's house was interesting. There was a woman sick there. Jesus touched her hand and the fever left her.

There are other fevers besides those we ask physicians to treat–fevers of discontent, of anxiety, of fretfulness, of sorrow. If only we would have the touch of Christ on our head it would cool our fever and quiet our hearts. On the boat we see the peace of Jesus in His sleeping in the storm. Then we see His power in His quieting of the winds and waves. We may trust Him in earth's wildest tempest. No harm can come to us on any sea if He is with us in the boat.

# January 28

Watch therefore: for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come. – Matthew 24:42

There is only one thing that we are absolutely sure of in the future–Christ's coming. We do not know when or how He will come. We only know that He will come.

The Master will knock at my door some night
And there, in the silence hushed and dim,
Will wait for my coming with lamp alight,
To open immediately to Him

If this is the only thing foretold
Of all my future life, then I pray
That quietly watchful I may hold
The key of a golden faith each day
Fast shut in my grasp, that, when I hear
His step, be it at dawn or at midnight dim,
Straightway may I arise without a fear,
And open immediately to Him.

# January 29

Without ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers. – Romans 1:9

We do not pray enough for others. The tendency of closet or solitary prayer is that we pray only for ourselves. We need to guard against this. No selfishness is quite so unworthy as selfishness when we are at God's throne of grace. Especially should we pray for our friends. No matter how much we may do for them in practical ways, ministering to them, advancing their interests, speakin on their behalf, showing them kindness, if we do not pray for them we have failed in friendship's most important duty. 

We need to give careful thought also to the matter of our prayers for our friends–the things we ask for them. If they are sick, we ask that they may recover, perhaps not thinking to ask also blessing may come to them in and through their sickness. Our prayers for those we love should always include the things that are indeed the best–God's best: that God's will may be done in them, that they may grow in grace and have the image of Christ imprinted on their lives.

# January 30

Ye know not what ye ask. – Matthew 20:22

Every true mother wishes noble things for her children. Not always, however, do even mothers seek the really best things for their children. 

The mother of James and John seems to have had only an earthly dream for her sons, althought it was the honor of being in Christ's kingdom she craved for them. Christian mothers should think of the things of divine love and grace for their children.

Christ takes our mistaken prayers and answers them in a far better way than we dreamed of when we made them. He gave the brothers high places, though they were not such high places, though they were not such high lpaces as they had in mind. We ask Him to bless us, and He does bless us, but sometimes through the loss of the very things which we thought He would give us. The two disciples did not shrink from the Master's cup and baptism, though they did not know that day that what they were asking they could not accept. They know later, and did not then fail their Master.

# January 31

Love worketh no ill to his neighbor. – Romans 8:10

We help or hurt others, according as we stand or falter in life's trials. We do not know what of strength it may mean to other souls for us to be faithful any little hour. We do not know what eyes are upon us in the life of the common days, with eager desire to learn if indeed there be grace in Christ to help one to be true. Our ictory means for others a belief in Christ's power to help, and our failure would mean the weakening of faith and hope in them. We never know what interests of others may depend on our being faithful and firm any hour.

Oh, if our brother's blood cry out to us,
How shall we meet Thee, who hast loved us all–
Thee whom we never loved, not loving him?
The unloving cannot chant with seraphim, 
Bear harp of gold or palm victorious
Or face the Vision Beatifical.

# Februray 1

Being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. – Romans 5:1

Peace with God is the beginning of all Christian peace. Mount Etna casts a shadow every morning over all the fair and beautiful island of Sicily. The people, as they go on with their work or their pleasure, do not allow themselves to think of the shadow or to speak of it. It seems ominous of doom as it moves silently over their gardens and homes. The shadow reminds them that within the terrible mountain slumber the fires which any hour may pour ruin over every lovely scene. It is a more ominous shadow than that of Etna which lies over this world–the curse of sin.

No one can be at peace until he is reconciled to God. But when we believe on Jesus Christ we are safe from condemntation, and have peace with God. Then all good things follow. We are God's friends and He is our Friend. We are at home now with Him. His power is 

Thou shall drink of the brook; and I have commanded the ravens to feed thee.—1 Kings 17:4.

OD is never at a loss to find a way of

V-4 providing for His children. All things are His servants. The brooks of water, the birds of the air, the beasts of the field, the wings of ravens, the waves of the sea—all creatures, all things animate and inanimate —belong to Him and are ready to serve Him at His call.

Some people are troubled about miracles, asking how God can interrupt the regular order of nature to do any special favor for a child of His. If we understand how completely all things are under God's hands, it will not be hard for us to believe that miracles are possible. Perhaps none of us ever were fed by ravens as Elijah was, but in other ways, not less marvelous, God brings to us our daily bread. Railroad trains carry it across continents, or ships bear it around the globe to bring it to our doors. We are too wise in these days—too wise on scientific subjects—to get the most perfect peace from the promises of God.

He requested for himself that he might die.—1 Kings 19:4.

LIJAH was in a state of despondency * when he uttered this unworthy prayer. It was not fright that produced this condition of mind—it was discouragement. It seemed to him that all the struggle on Carmel had amounted to nothing.

It is a sad picture—this great prophet lying there under a little bush in the wilderness, begging that he might die. This is one of the unanswered prayers of the Bible, and it is well for Elijah it was not answered. If he had died then, what an inglorious ending would it have been to his life! As it was, however, he lived to do further glorious work, and instead of dying in the wilderness, he missed death altogether.

It is never right to wish ourselves dead. Life is God's gift to us, a sacred trust for which we shall have to give account. As long as God keeps us living He has something for us to do. Our prayers should be for grace to bear our burden and do our duty bravely unto the end.

The man of God sent unto the king of Israel, saying, Beware that thou pass not such a place.—2 Kings 6:9.

"VTOTHING is hidden from God. We are * told that the Lord knows how to deliver the godly out of temptation. Here we have an illustration of this. The Lord knew the plans of the king of Syria to entrap the king of Israel. He made known these plans to Elisha, and he in turn told the king of Israel of the ambush, that he might save himself from the peril.

The Bible gives us many such warnings. In such and such paths, it tells us, it is not safe for us to go, for Satan walks there.

There is a fable of a wonderful ring which a prince wore, that clasped his finger softly while he went in right ways, but stung him sharply whenever he was in danger of going in some wrong path. That is what conscience does. If only we heeded the warnings of our conscience we should never get into places of danger, save when duty called us there, and then we should have protection, for when God sends us He will take care of us.

Elisha was fallen sick of his sickness whereof he died.— 2 Kings 13:14.

T T is interesting, while we stand beside this * old man's deathbed, to think of the blessing he was to the country in which he lived. He first appears as a young farmer plowing, when suddenly behind him comes the prophet Elijah and throws over his shoulders a sheepskin cloak. This cloak was the emblem of the prophetic office, and the young fanner was called to the ministry. From that time his life was given up to God's service, first as the attendant of Elijah, and then as the prophet of Israel. He was a man of gentle mood and kindly spirit. But a few incidents are recorded of him, but these show us the spirit of the man. The friend of the poor and the oppressed, he was also the counselor and helper of kings.

There is no time when a man's life and work can be seen quite so truly as from amid the shadows of his death hour. We should live so that when the end of our life comes the world may speak approvingly of us.

When the man touched the bones of Elisha, he revived.— 2 Kings 13:21.

F course this was a miracle. The inci

dent illustrates the truth that a good man's influence lives after him.

There is a story of an old monk who was shipwrecked and cast upon a desert island. He had with him a package of seeds which he scattered upon the bare island. Soon afterward he died there, but twenty years later, some persons coming to the island found it covered from side to side with waving harvests and luxuriant fruit-trees, the result of the scattering of the seeds from the monk's hand twenty years ago. So it is with those who live well: wherever they go, they drop seeds which spring up into beauty.

There is a legend which says that when the Empress Helena was searching for the true cross, three crosses were found. They brought a dead body and laid it in turn upon the crosses. When it rested upon the true cross, it became alive. This is only a legend, but it illustrates the truth that the power of Christ always gives life and healing. .

It was in my mind to build an house:…but the word of the Lord came to me, saying,…Thou shall not build.—1 Chbon. 22:7,8.

THERE are many people who do preparatory work. A man goes to the West and clears off a piece of ground, building a rude log hut. His son succeeds him, and in the midst of broad, rich acres erects a palatial home. The father's work was just as necessary and important, in its place, as the son's.

One set of men make the excavation for a great building, and put in the foundations. For weeks they toil away under ground, and then another set of men come, and the walls rise up and a magnificent building is erected. The foundation work is buried, but who will say it is less important than the splendid house built above?

It is the same in all Christian work. One prepares the way, another follows and speaks the word which saves. To each one God allots a part, and if we do our own work, God asks nothing more. He accepts our purposes and blesses us for good intentions, though others carry them out.

Commanded Judah to seek the Lord,…and to do the law and the commandment.—2 Chronicles 14:4.

REPENTANCE is not complete unless we get back to God and renew our allegiance to Him. One of our Lord's parables tells of the casting out of an evil spirit, the man's heart then being left empty. By and by the demon, returning after many wanderings, found his old house swept and garnished, but still empty; and, gathering up a number of other demons worse than himself, he returned into his old place. That is always the story when evil is cast out and the life is not filled with God.

There is a verse in one of Paul's epistles in which the apostle calls upon Christians to present their bodies as living sacrifices to Him. He wants our body that He may purify it and give it back to us cleansed. We must not think that it is merely for the help that we can give to God that He so earnestly desires the consecration of ourselves to Him; it is that He may take us, with all our sinfulness, and make us holy and beautiful, like Christ.

His heart was lifted up in the ways of the Lord.—2 Chronicles 17:6.

THERE is a bad lifting up and a good lifting up. Some people are made vain by prosperity. The temptation for us when first called to do any work, if we accomplish it with some measure of success, is to become proud. It ought to make us humble to learn that God is using us, is entrusting us with something of His to minister to others, and is blessing the work which we are doing for Him. Every favor we receive should make us more earnest in doing the will of God.

Too often, as money comes in, and prosperity increases, people get so absorbed in these new gifts of God that the Giver Himself fades out of their vision. We should never forget that every new kindness which comes to us is a new evidence of God's thought for us, and that because of it we should love Him the more and devote ourselves the more earnestly to His work. If only we thus see the hand of God in every new mercy and goodness that comes to us, our hearts will be lifted up in the ways of the Lord.

The Lord your God is gracious and merciful, and will not turn away his face from you, if ye return unto Him.—2 Chbon. 30:9.

OD loves to forgive. The only time in

the Bible God is represented as running is in the parable of the Prodigal Son, when the father ran to meet his penitent boy.

The Koran says that every man has two angels, who walk by his side all the day. One is the angel of good deeds, who records every good thing the man does, and puts it down ten times lest something may be omitted. The other is the angel of evil deeds, who keeps a record of every wrong thing the man does. At nightfall both these angels fly home to God and make their report. The angel of good deeds tells of all that has been beautiful in the man's conduct during the day, and the angel of evil deeds reports all the wrong. Then the angel of good deeds begs that the record of sins shall not be put down for seven hours. Perhaps the man will repent, confess, and be forgiven. This Mohammedan legend represents the truth about God, who is slow to anger and quick to show mercy.

Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered.—Psalm 32:1.

THIS beatitude does not say, "Blessed is the sinless man," but, " Blessed is the sinner forgiven." Unforgiven sin lies as a dead weight upon a life. But with forgiveness comes all the blessedness of life and glory. When we are forgiven we become at once God's children, heirs of God and jointheirs with Christ to the inheritance of eternal life. God covers our sins, and they are put out of sight forever—out of our sight, out of the world's sight, out of God's sight. God says He will remember our sins against us no more. So the covering is complete and final. The reason is, that the sins are covered by an atonement made by another. My forgetting that I owe a debt does not pay the debt. But when some other one pays it for me, the debt is covered and the charge blotted out. "All we like sheep have gone astray,…and the Lord hath laid on Him the iniquity of us all." If our sins were laid on Jesus, surely they are covered forever and will never rise up against us!

The proverbs of Solomon.—Phov. 1:1.

SOLOMON learned a great deal by experience. He put all the resources of this world to the test to see just what they would do for a man. His proverbs are not, therefore, mere bits of theory, like many wise words we see; they were all wrought out in the crucible of actual experience.

Some of his words mark dangers: "Don't turn this way!" Some of them point to the safe path: "This is the way!" Whatever he found in life he set down here for the benefit of those who would come after.

It is wonderful, too, at how many points these proverbs touch life, and how intensely practical they are. To ponder them and to follow their instruction is to live well and grandly. It is wonderful also that while Solomon himself wandered so far from God, there is not in all his writings a single word that excuses his sins. Everywhere he points away from the wrong path and to the right.

A wise man will hear, and will increase learning.—Proverbs 1:5.

THE wise man never ceases to be a learner. He never gets to a point where he feels satisfied with his attainments. Many a man who starts out with great promise in early life, by and by loses his energy and fails of his early hope, because in the elation of his first successes he stopped learning, and then growth was at an end, and when growth stops decay begins.

An old artist had for his motto: "Nulla dies sine linea" (No day without a line). Every day he would add one line, at least, to his knowledge and attainment. There could be no better motto for any life, young or old. Every day we should learn something we did not know before, add some new fact to our store of knowledge. Every day we should get some new lesson into our life, learn at some point to live better. This applies to secular life—there should be daily progress in the business or profession we pursue. It applies to spiritual life—no day should be without its added line of likeness to Christ.

There was a darkness over all the earth.—Luke 23:44.

HE died in darkness, that when we walk in the valley of the shadow of death, the light of glory may shine about us. Death for the Christian has no bitterness, because Jesus drained the curse from it. Mrs. Browning has pictured, with rare beauty, the effect of Christ's death upon two seraphim who lingered a little behind the hosts of heaven that had gathered about the cross. One of them is troubled by the thought that men will now have more reason to love God than even the angels have.

"Oh! not with this blood on us—and this face,

Still, haply, pale with sorrow that it bore

In our behalf, and tender evermore

With nature all our own, upon us gazing—

Nor yet with these forgiving hands up-

raising

Their unreproachful wounds, alone to bless!

Alas, Creator! shall we love Thee less

Than mortals shall?"

It is finished.—John 19:30.

HOUGH the life of Jesus had been so

the end came. He had done each day the work given to Him to do that day, and when the last hour of the last day came there was nothing that He had left undone. We ought to learn the lesson, and live as Jesus lived, so as to have every part of our work finished when the end comes. But what was it that was finished, when Jesus bowed His head on the cross? A famous picture represents Christ lifted up, and beneath Him an innumerable procession of the saints advancing out of the darkness and coming into the light of His cross. There can be no doubt that He had such a vision of redemption while He hung there, for we are told that He "endured the cross, despising the shame, because of the joy set before Him." "It is finished," was therefore a shout of victory as He completed His work of suffering. He went into the grave, but not to stay there. He came again, a glorious conqueror; and because He lives, all His people shall live also.

was quite ready to go when

What God hath cleansed, thai call not thou common—Acts 11:9.

IT is very hard to give up old beliefs. The Jews had always been taught, as part of their religion, that they must keep themselves separate from the Gentiles. It was hard for them to believe that Peter had done right in accepting the hospitality of a Roman. It was hard for Peter himself to become willing to visit Cornelius. It required a special divine vision to convince him that the old law was changed, and that now everybody was to be considered a brother.

We need to learn to keep mind and heart ever open to receive the truth, even when it sweeps away our old beliefs.

Peter, however, tells us what we should do. No distinction should be made any more among men, but to every one the love of Christ should be offered. We can love and help some more easily than others. But when we see one who needs us, we must never ask who it is. He is our neighbor, and we are to love him.

They which were scattered…traveled,…preaching the word.—Acts 11:19.

THERE was a pile of logs burning on the edge of some woods. The wind determined to put out the fire, and, gathering itself into a tempest, violently assaulted it. The result was, the coals were carried through the woods, falling among the dry leaves and underbrush. Instead, therefore, of putting out the fire, the storm only scattered it everywhere, for every hot coal started a new burning, and soon the whole forest was ablaze.

It was not in the minds of the first believers to take the gospel to the nations outside. Persecution was an effort to put out the heavenly fire. Instead of this, however, it only drove the Christians into all parts of the world. So it happened that a thousand little churches were started.

The name of Barnabas shines brightly here. If he had been a narrow man he might have checked the work. But he was a good man, full of love and of the Holy Spirit, and the work prospered.

Peter therefore was kept in prison: bid prayer was made…for him.—Acre 12:5.

SOME of His followers Christ wants to witness for Him by dying for Him. The ministry of James was short. It seems strange to us that he was not spared to live longer, to tell others of his Master. But he did the work which had been given him to do.

Others Christ wants to serve Him by living long for Him. Peter was delivered from Herod's hands that he might continue to preach and be a blessing to many. No prison can hold a man when Christ wants him outside. Gates count for nothing when God proposes to open them. It was prayer that opened Peter's prison. The Christians met together and besought God for Peter's release. Their prayer was heard, and, while they were still pleading, Peter knocked at the door. Sometimes the answers to our prayers surprise us. Peter's friends could not believe it was him at the door, though they had been praying all night for his deliverance.

Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called them.—Acts 13:2.

THE live church is always a missionary church. It is not content to have the gospel only for itself, but wants others to have it, too. The church at Antioch was prosperous. The people showed their love for Christ by sending money to Christians in Palestine who were suffering from famine. They showed it further by sending missionaries. Barnabas and Saul were chosen for this mission. The Spirit named the missionaries, and then the church ordained them and sent them out.

We have in this chapter a sad story of a young missionary helper who belonged to the party sent out from Antioch. For a time he was Faithful, while there was no danger and while they were in a civilized country. But when they passed over into a wild region, among rough people, John Mark left the missionaries and returned home.

We should never abandon any work we begin for our Master. When it begins to cost, we should begin to rejoice.

The apostles and elders came together for to consider of this matter.—Acts 15:6.

RELIGIOUS contentions are often about matters of only minor importance. People agree on essential things and then quarrel about things that do not matter. It would save many strifes that do great harm if men would seek counsel in their differences and find a basis of agreement. If a peaceful course had not been followed in this ancient case, the Christian Church would have been rent in two, and no one can tell what the disastrous consequences would have been.

Christians should always be ready to yield their own preferences to prevent strife. "Blessed are the peacemakers."

There is a story of two monks who had never quarreled. They began to think their life monotonous, and one of them suggested that they quarrel. "Well, what shall we quarrel about?" "About this stone," was the answer. "You say it is yours and I'll say it is mine." " This stone belongs to me," said the first. "Very well—you may have it," was the reply.

Certain which went out from us have troubled you with words.—Acts 15:24.

THERE are some people who are always troubling others with words, as "certain" had been doing at Antioch. There are contentious persons still, who are never so much in their element as when they are picking a quarrel. There are those who think they are fond of Bible study, but who really are fond only of quibbling over controverted passages. Those who are set to instruct such Christians should deal with them most gently and patiently. The religion of Christ never lays needless burdens on any disciples. There are certain essential things, and these should be plainly set forth. Then there are things not essential, and these should not be bound on the backs of the followers of Christ. A distinguished clergyman says that the text, "Do justly, love mercy, walk humbly with thy God," is the greatest saying of the Old Testament. It presents in the simplest words the whole of what God requires. Surely men need not require more of others than God does!

So Barnabas took Mark, and sailed unto Cyprus.—Acts 15:39.

/^~\NLY the generous interest of Barnabas

'in him gave John Mark his second chance. He had sadly failed in his first. He started with Paul and Barnabas on their missionary tour, but returned home. He now wanted a chance to redeem himself, and Paul would not take him again. Barnabas was his friend, however, and thus Mark got a new start and became a worthy and useful man. Barnabas seems to have been right, though this cost him the friendship of Paul. The two men quarreled and separated. But Mark was worth saving from his failure.

Paul did not mean to go into Europe, but other doors which he sought to enter were shut against him, and a divine vision called him to the new continent. It was a beautiful beginning, there on the river bank, that Sabbath, when Paul found a little company of women at their worship, and told them about Christ, and when at least one woman opened her heart to Christ and her home to the missionaries.

When her masters saw that the hope of their gains was gone, they caught Paid and Silas.—Acre 16:19.

» ▼ ets it tests their character. Paul did a noble work for this poor demented woman, but it unfitted her for being a source of profit to her masters. They stirred up the people against the missionaries. The prison at Philippi was the scene of strange occurrences that night. The missionaries were in the underground dungeon. Their bodies were sore from scourging. Their feet were screwed fast in wooden clamps. Yet at midnight the other prisoners heard songs in the lower prison. All their sufferings could not stop the joy in the men's hearts. The next strange thing was the conversion of the jailer. He cried out and asked what he must do to be saved. Paul told him to believe on the Lord Jesus, and he should be saved. How do we know he was saved? We know it by the change in the man. He was brutal and cruel before. Now we see him become gentle as a woman.

touches men's pockPaid, as his manner was, went in unto them.—Acre 17:2.

PAUL was a man of habits. "His custom was" always to attend church. It is a fine thing to have such a "custom." Too many people grow careless about going to church. Those who become Christ's friends should come out and join Christ's company. Some people believe on Christ, but stay mixed up in the old company, and nobody knows that they are Christians. That is not what Christ wants us to do.

Sometimes the true thing in time of persecution is to go away. The missionaries left Thessalonica by night. There was no reason why they should stay longer. So they went on to Berea. We may never flee from our duty, but it may sometimes be our du|y to flee.

The Bereans showed their nobility of character by receiving the words of Paul readily and making inquiry to see if they were according to the Scriptures. It is the mark of a narrow mind to refuse to examine what is said before rejecting it.

His spirit was stirred in him, when he saw the city wholly given to idolatry.—Acts 17:16.

ABELIEVER in God cannot look upon the world's treatment of holy things without sore pain.

Athens was a city of idols. There were more gods there than men—it was said. It was not easy to confess Christ in Athens, amid such exhibitions of idolatry as were seen everywhere. Yet that was just the place the true God should be proclaimed, and Paul was the only witness God had there.

It is not enough for us to speak for God only where His name is honored, where all the people are, in a way, His friends. If we do this and then shrink from mentioning His name where all are hostile, we have failed in loyalty.

Paul spoke words at Athens which the people had never heard before. He told of the one God in a place where hundreds of gods were worshiped. He declared God as spiritual and unseen, where all the people worshiped statues they could see.

Aquila,…lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla.—Acts 18:2.

THERE is a Hand that directs our movements and shapes our lives. An old English poet wrote of what we call chance:

"It chanced—eternal God that chance did guide."

Aquila and Priscilla were brought to Corinth by a hardship. But if they had not been at Corinth they would not have met Paul. They needed Paul and Paul needed them, so it was a blessed chance that brought them together. He was working at Corinth, lonely and a bit discouraged. Then two friends joined him, and at once we read that he preached with new earnestness. A good friend is a mighty impulse in any man's life. Christ is always an encourager. Paul was again disheartened. Then the Lord said to him, "Be not afraid, but speak,…for I am with thee." Paul took fresh courage and preached with new power.

They took him unto them, and expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly.—Acts 18:26.

WE should know the whole gospel if we would do Christian work well. Apollos was a Christian, and was earnest and eloquent, but he had gone in his knowledge of Christ only as far as the Baptist's teaching. Priscilla and Aquila heard him preach, and saw the defect. They saw that he did not know of Christ's death and resurrection. When they had taught him the whole gospel, he became a powerful preacher.

About the best service we can do to most people we meet is to encourage them. More than half the men and women we meet any day need encouragement. One of the worst sins we can commit against others is to be a discourager. Perhaps the trouble with a good many Christians is the same that ailed the dozen men whom Paul found at Ephesus. They had not even heard that the Spirit was given. We can have power in witnessing for Christ only when we are filled with the Spirit.

There arose no small stir about that loay.—Acts 19:23.

X THEREVER the gospel goes it wakes

touches men's business adversely does it excite their worst passions. Here it was the silversmiths' business that was imperiled. The harangue of Demetrius shows that Paul's preaching was of the right kind. Some preaching does not disturb sin nor alarm sinners. But Paul's stirred up those who heard it. He denounced idols—said they were no gods. This frightened the silversmiths, for their chief business was in making shrines of Diana.

A good test of a revival is when it touches the sins of a community, and draws people from them.

About the sanest man in Ephesus that day was the town clerk. He was a loyal believer in Diana, but he had sense enough to know that it would be foolish to do any harm to the missionaries. The preachers had said nothing against their goddess, they had only preached their own religion, and to harm them would only bring trouble upon those who did it.

opposition. Especially when it

Paid called unto him the disciples, and embraced them, and departed.—Acre 20:1.

DRIVEN from one place, Paul only went to preach in another. No persecution ever quenched his zeal. A Hindu said Christians were like certain fruit-trees— clubbing only brought down the fruit. This was true of Paul. It ought to be true of every Christian. The more people oppose us and seek to injure us, the more love should be revealed in our lives. Paul's preaching might not have pleased some present-day congregations that insist on having abbre- > viated sermons. On one occasion at least Paul kept his congregation a good deal over the thirty-minute standard. It was well past midnight, and he would not have stopped then if something had not happened. We can scarcely blame Eutychus for getting sleepy, and it must have made a great commotion when he fell. But even this did no more than interrupt the preaching—it did not stop it, for Paul continued till daybreak, and then they had the Lord's Supper before he left them.

/ take you to record this day that I am pure from the blood of all men.—Acts 20:26.

IT is a happy thing for a minister, or anybody, to be able to look back on years of life and work, and to find nothing to regret-—nothing done that were better not done. Yet that is the way we should all live. Paul's review of his life shows a fine model of pastoral faithfulness. He had been always with his people—not running away on all manner of excursions. He had loved his people—that is the secret of ministerial success. A man who does not love people cannot be a good pastor.

It is a great thing for any one to be able to say, "I am pure from the blood of all men." This implies that we have done all we could do to show Christ to them.

Paul's farewell shows how deep an interest he had in the people he was leaving. It shows his faith, too, for he commits them all to God, knowing that they would not be forgotten or overlooked when the pastor was gone.

Finding disciples, we tarried there seven days.—Acts 21:4.

"1^7E get a lesson on wayside ministry.

» » Some people travel a good deal, stopping at certain places. If they are eager to be helpful to others, they can find opportunities, to do much good in these pauses. When the ship called at Tyre, Paul improved the opportunity to look up the Christians that were there. Again at Ptolemais he saluted the brethren. It never will be known how much good he did to the Christians at these places.

Paul's friends, when they learned what awaited him, begged him not to go on. He refused to listen to their pleadings, but no doubt their appeals made it harder for him to go forward to do God's will.

Peter would have held Jesus from going on to death, but Jesus told him he was acting the part of Satan, tempting Him. When our friends have a hard duty we should encourage them to loyalty, not to faintheartedness. The true follower of Christ should be ready to endure any cost or sacrifice for the name of Christ.

When we were come to Jerusalem, the brethren received us gladly.—Acts 21:17.

WHEREVER Christians meet they recognize in each other brothers. Though strangers before, they greet one another as friends. The Jews welcomed Paul and rejoiced to hear of the work among the Gentiles. But they knew there were many Jewish Christians who could not quite trust Paul. They thought he was disloyal to his nation. But what they had heard about him was not true. He had never taught the Jewish Christians to' forsake Moses. Yet that is the way bigotry often does—it misstates the words of an opponent.

Sometimes, to remove false impressions, we have to do things it ought not to be necessary for us to do. Paul accepted the advice of the leaders that he should make an exhibition of his loyalty to Jewish rites to prove to suspicious people that he was really in sympathy with his own people.

It is right for us to seek to free ourselves from false charges when thereby we are promoting the good of the Church.

I have lived in all good conscience before God until this day. —Acts 23:1.

ONSCIENCE may lead us to do wrong.

Paul acted conscientiously even when he was persecuting Christians. Conscience needs divine instruction.

No doubt Paul had a right as a Christian to protest against the way the high priest smote him in the face. Still, we cannot help feeling that Christ's bearing on His trial was nobler, and sets us a better example than Paul's. He, when reviled, reviled not again; when He suffered, He threatened not, but committed all to Him who judgeth righteously. Paul's apologizing is an example we may follow safely if ever we are betrayed into hot-tempered speech or act. It is always noble in a man to say, "I did wrong," or "I was mistaken," when he has given way to any unchristian feeling. Some people are too proud ever to apologize.

Again we see Christ here as an encourager. Paul had had a depressing day. Then Jesus came to him with cheer, assuring him that he should see Rome—a dream of many years.

When Paul's sister's son heard of {heir lying in vxiit, he .went…and told Paid.—Acts 23:16.

NOTHING is more sure than that God keeps guard on the lives of those who are carrying out His plans. No bullet can strike down on the battlefield today the man for whom the Lord has work tomorrow. Paul had been assured that he must witness for Christ at Rome. The next day there was a conspiracy to kill him. But his enemies could not touch him. He was under divine protection. Strange are the providences by which God carries out His purposes. We do not know anything about Paul's sister's son —we have only one glimpse of him. Somehow this young man heard of the conspiracy. He was brave enough to run risks in getting word to Paul.

The human links are important in working out God's deliverance. We must always be ready to do our duty in helping those who are in trouble. Our part may be the essential one, and our neglect may result in the failure of the whole scheme.

/ know that thou hast been of many years a judge unto this nation.—Acre 24:10.

COURTESY is always a mark of noble character. We see it in Paul as he stands before Felix. He compliments the governor—not in a fulsome way, but in fitting words. We should study the art of pleasing others. Some people are brusque almost to rudeness. Manners are far more important in life than most people imagine.

A great many things that are said against others start only in neighborhood gossip, or from a mere supposition. That is the way this accusation against Paul started. Somebody saw him in the temple. Before this time, a Gentile, Trophimus, had been seen with Paul on the street. Then it was said that Paul had this Gentile with him in the temple.

We need to be exceedingly careful never to say anything of another which is not absolutely true. Inference, or supposition, is not basis enough to start a charge upon.

The only safe way is always to live so carefully, so truthfully, so purely, that nothing any one may say of us falsely may hurt us.

As he reasoned of righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come, Felix trembled.—Acts 24:25.

POET represents the "woman who

was a sinner" coming along the street when Jesus was in Simon's house. His eye saw her and her old evil self withered to nothingness. So it was with Felix when Paul's words concerning righteousness, selfcontrol, and judgment fell upon him. "Felix was terrified." He could not stand those withering eyes and those searching words. The course of Felix in sending away the preacher and postponing the matter is the course which men continually take. It is a well-trodden pathway, and there always are many feet treading it.

"Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow

Creeps in this petty pace from day to day,

To the last syllable of recorded time;

And all our yesterdays have lighted fools

The way to dusty death."

When I found that he had .. .. appealed unto Augustus, I have determined to send him.—Acts 25:25.

PAUL had been assured that he would witness for Christ at Rome. But the way to Rome was a long one for him. He was kept in prison, and prevented from reaching his destination promptly. But we may be sure that no time was really lost.

God's plans often move slowly, and if we try to hurry them we only do harm. The Roman courts were the shelter divinely provided for Paul in those days. His appeal to Caesar saved him. If he had been in the hands of the Jews, he would have been killed. But Roman justice was a wall about him which shielded him. Paul's mission was to go to Rome as a missionary, and Rome carried him there. God's hand moves in all the world's events. Paul's affairs filled a large place in men's thoughts in those days. The Jews kept clamoring at the door of Festus for his death. But Festus found that they had no charge against him worthy of attention. So Paul's appeal to Cresar protected him from his enemies.

/ thank my God through Jesus Christ for you.—Romans 1:8.

PAUL was a model pastor. To begin with, he was unalterably devoted to Christ. Then he loved people with a love that was wondrously like the love of Christ. Here he thanks God for the friends to whom he is writing, especially for their faith. Then he appeals to God to witness to the sincerity of his interest in them, which led him unceasingly to make mention of them in his prayers.

The prayer which at that time was in his heart was that he might be prospered in his desire to get to them at Rome. He longed to see them. The reason he thus so wished to see them shows a most lofty spiritual motive. His desire was purely unselfish—" that I may impart unto you some spiritual gift." Here we have a high ideal for all friendship. We should always want to do our friends good. Every time we meet them we should wish to do something for them—to give them some cheer, some comfort, to put a little new courage into their hearts.

The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness.—Romans 1:18.

IT is well that we sometimes have a glimpse of some of the possibilities of sin, that we may know what a terrible thing it is. Such a glimpse Paul gives us in our reading for today. There would not seem to be much in this fearful portrayal to give us comfort or cheer. Yet the black picture has its suggestion of praise—this is the abyss from which we have been saved by the grace of God.

Some one illustrates the greatness of salvation by two visions. First, he had a vision of the awful fruits of sin. "That," said his guide, "is what in the ages of eternity you would have been, if you had gone on in sin, unredeemed." Then he was shown the glories of the redeemed. He saw hosts of angels dwelling in ineffable glory, and beyond and above these, in the far distance, he beheld beings transcendently radiant and glorious. "That," said the guide, "is yourself ages hence. Behold the bliss and glory into which your Savior will bring you."

Wherein thou judgest another, thou condemned thyself.— Romans 2:1.

WE are not judged according to our advantages, but by what we make of these advantages. Indeed the more light we have the greater is our responsibility and the more will be required of us. If we sit apart, in the comfort of our superior privileges, and judge those who have not our privileges and live unworthily, we must beware, for in condemning others we condemn ourselves. It is a good thing to be born in a Christian land and to be brought up in a Christian home, but if we do not live according to our advantages, it would have been better for us if we had been born in a heathen land. That was what Jesus said about the people in Capernaum and the other cities where He had lived and preached and wrought, doing His works of love and grace. He said it would be more tolerable for Sodom than for those cities, because having the privileges, they had rejected them. We need to lay the lesson to heart, for we have Christ ever on our streets.

There is none righteous, no, not one.—Romans 3:10.

PREACHER writes that he was re

cently waited on by an officer of the church, of which he is a pastor, telling him that in these days of intelligence and liberal thinking, it is better that a man shall not preach about sin. This third chapter of Romans will be ruled out in that church and will not be considered suitable for reading in the pulpit.

Nevertheless, the chapter is in the Bible, and it will not be obsolete for some time. If there had been no sin there would have been no need for the redemption of Christ. The background of the cross is the terrible fact of sin. "All have sinned, and fall short of the glory of God." The word "sin" means missing the mark. The glory of God is yonder, on the shining mountain-top, and men are standing helpless at the foot of the mountain. They never can climb the steep cliffs. They fall short of the glory of God. If there were no other way, not one ever could reach glory. Sin leaves all men far off from hope.

Abraham belieivd God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness.—Romans 4:3.

THERE is a way of reaching the mountain-top. The best that the holiest man can do leaves him far short of the glory of God. But divine mercy comes down and bridges over the chasm. Jesus said, "I am the way:…no one cometh unto the Father, but by Me." There is a story of a boy and his little brother crossing a lake on the ice. They came to a crack, and the little fellow could not get across. Then his brother laid himself down over the crack, making a bridge of his body, and the little fellow crept over on him. That is what Jesus did. Men could not cross the great chasm between sin and glory, and He laid His own body across it, and on this "way" whosoever will may pass over and reach the Father and blessedness.

The word "justified" means that those who accept the redemption of Christ become as though they had not sinned, so completely are their sins put away. All we have to do is to accept of Christ.

By the righteousness of One the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life.—Romans 5:18.

\ LL grace and good come to us through Jesus Christ. Through one man sin entered into the world. When Christ came He gained the victory of life. So now, through Him, all that is holy, true, and good comes to all who accept Him. There is no other one through whom we can get blessing. Without Christ even earth's sweetest joys have no power to give us enduring happiness. But when we have Christ, everything is enriched. The world grows more beautiful. The common blessings of the common days come from His hand and have new sweetness in them. Our daily bread is more sacred by being His gift to us. Every flower we see by the wayside suggests to us some thought of Him. But the best blessings that come through Christ are the things of grace, heavenly good things. These are eternal, and we should never lose them. We need only to make sure that we accept Christ and His redemption, and then all things shall be ours in Him.

Reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin.— Romans 6:11.

IT is a wonderful suggestion, as a scheme of life, that we shall reckon ourselves to be dead unto sin. A dead man cannot sin. A story is told of an old shoemaker who had been a wicked man. He had a terrible temper, and in his fits of anger would throw his hammer, or a last, or anything within his reach, at the person who had excited his feeling. But after his conversion he never got angry any more. " I am dead," he would say. "A dead man cannot get into bad temper. A dead man cannot throw a hammer."

If we would train ourselves to be dead to all that is wrong, we should soon get away from many very unlovely things. Then we should also reckon ourselves to be alive unto God. It is not enough to suppress evil—we must also nourish whatever is good. It is not enough not to be bad-tempered; we must become sweet in our spirit, and be gentle, forgiving, and kind. All the best possibilities in us should be called out by the love of Christ in us.

Being then made free from sin, ye became the servants of righteousness.—Romans 6:18.

WE must serve some one. If we are not under one master we must be under another. Becoming a Christian is changing masters; it is coming out f rom under the yoke of sin and accepting the sway of Christ. We have it here: "Being made free from sin, ye became servants of righteousness." Paul was himself an illustration of this. He was on his way to Damascus, breathing slaughter against the Christians. Like a flash appeared before him a glorious Being who could not be less than divine. "Who art Thou?" "I am Jesus whom thou persecutest." Instantly Saul saw what a terrible mistake he had been making, and at once he was at the feet of Him whom he had been persecuting. He had a new Master, and his whole life was surrendered.

Too many people, when they accept Christ, do not bring their whole life with them. Paul did, and that is what every one who follows Christ should do. We should become as earnest as Christians as we were before in our service of the world.

It is no more I that do it, hut sin that dwelleth in me.— Romans 7:17.

T)AUL shows us a vision of his inner life,

and we see a fierce struggle going on. The two men in him were utterly different in their character and aim. "Not what I would, that do I practice; but what I hate, that I do.' His better self approved the right, but the other self, which seemed the stronger, did the wrong. "So now it is no more I that do it, but sin which dwelleth in me." The good that was struggling in him was the new life, Christ in him, and the other self was sin that was fighting hard not to be driven out. For the time the evil seemed the stronger. "To will is present with me, but to do that which is good is not. For the good which I would I do not; but the evil which I would not, that I practice." We understand this if we are really striving to live a holy life.

A prayer of Fenelon's runs, "Lord, take me, for I cannot give myself to Thee; and when Thou hast me, keep me, for I cannot keep myself; and save me in spite of my

Ye have received the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father.—Romans 8:15.

TXT" HEN we put ourselves under the yoke

» » of Christ, He is able to free us from the old evil nature. "The law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made me free from the law of sin and death." What we should do when we find some sin struggling in us for the mastery is to refer the matter to Christ. He is stronger than the strongest evil. He met all powers and overcame them all. He is able to overcome also for us. He is a proved Savior. The Spirit of God dwells in us. "If any man hath not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of His." But if Christ lives in us we need never give way to any evil influence. We have here a plain rule which will make it easy for us to know whether we are living right or not: "As many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God." This again starts us in a chain of wonderful privileges. "We are children of God: and if children, then heirs; heirs of God and joint-heirs with

Christ.;

We know thai all things work together for good to them that love God.—Romans 8:28.

T)EOPLE often ask how there can be *. good in everything. Here is the answer. "We know that to them that love God, all things work together for good." If only we love God, all things will work together so as to bring good to us. It may not seem that this or that particular experience can yield good. But God is able to combine this seemingly harmful thing with other things, and from the combination bring good. The selling of Joseph by his brothers was a black crime, and an observer would have said the evil never could be turned to good. Yet we know the sequel. "The Lord meant it for good."

A lady showed Mr. Ruskin a handkerchief on which some careless person had dropped a drop of ink. Mr. Ruskin took the handkerchief away and returned it in a few days with an India ink engraving on it, using the ugly blot as the basis of the design. So God will take the blots in our lives and change them into beauty, if only we love Him and are Faithful.

/ will have mercy on whom I will have mercy.—Romans 9:15.

IT is a great honor to be chosen by God for some noble position or some great service. Abraham was chosen from among all the men of his age to be the beginner of a family that would serve the Lord and become the inheritors of His grace. Jacob was chosen to be the father of the people of God to whom the divine revelations might be entrusted. Jesus chose twelve men to be His apostles, that they might be trained and thus be prepared to become His witnesses after He was gone. Christ is always choosing men and women for special duties and special responsibilities. Indeed He is always choosing us for something good or something beautiful; sometimes for joy, sometimes for sorrow. "Ye did not choose Me," He says to us, "but I chose you, and appointed you, that ye should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit should abide." Whatever it may be for which we are chosen, so far as condition and experience may go, we know that the Master's final desire is that we may bear fruit in love and service. [ 187 ]

The ward is nigh thee, even in thy mmUh, and in thy heart. —Romans 10:8.

MANY people never find what they seek, because they do not seek for it where it is. They travel far to look for something which is waiting at their very feet. They want to find Christ in their needs and hearthungers, and they strain their eyes looking for Him in the heavens, while all the time He is close to them, closer than the air. "Say not in thy heart, Who shall ascend into heaven? (that is, to bring Christ down).…The word is nigh thee." Always Christ is nigh, and we never need to look for Him far off.

A monk was praying for a vision of Christ. A little child came to his door and cried for help, but the monk had no time for the child—he was watching for the vision, which did not appear. At the close of the day he learned that Christ came in the little child, called, sobbed, was refused, and went away.

We should look close to ourselves always for the thing we seek. We need only to listen any moment to hear the voice we want to hear. j- 188 j

Hath God cast away IIis people? God forbid.—Romans 11:1.

OD never casts off any one. His love

never fails. Sometimes people speak as if He had cast off the Jewish people, but He did not—He never did. The trouble was that they cast God off. Yet even at the darkest hour there was a remnant of them who were Faithful and received the blessing. God never fails in His promises. His word is "The mountains may depart, and the hills be removed; but My loving kindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall My covenant of peace be removed, saith Jehovah that hath mercy on thee." This covenant of peace never has been broken with any one who trusted in God. But there are two parties to every covenant. God's promises are conditioned on our obedience. If we fail in our part, it is we who break the covenant. Then when the blessings promised do not come, we cannot say God has forgotten us. The truth is, we have forsaken God, and the blessings of His love have been withdrawn because we have rejected them.

Present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God.—Romans 12:1.

DOCTRINES are the roots from which duties grow. After eleven chapters of severe logic, the strongest kind of strong meat, we have now five chapters of the most practical sort of teaching. Roots are necessary to beautiful plants, and doctrines are necessary to duties. Moralities without doctrines at the back of them are rootless plants. The two phrases, "a living sacrifice," and " be ye transformed," give us the key of all the beautiful lessons in this chapter. We are to give ourselves to Christ as a sacrifice laid upon the altar, and are to grow into all divine loveliness of disposition and character. In becoming Christians we become members of the body of Christ. This implies that it is the life of Christ that is in us, and that we must be like Him, since we are animated by His life. We can realize this beauty of life only by surrendering ourselves wholly to Christ, thus becoming in fact members of Him. Then shall we be in reality transformed into the likeness of Christ.

Owe no man anything, but to love one another: for he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law.—Romans 13:8.

IT may be worth our while to linger to-, day on one duty suggested in our reading—to keep out of debt. "Owe no man anything." There is much need that this lesson should be enforced. There are many Christian people whose consciences need toning up on this subject. They think nothing of borrowing money. Those who are reputed to be kind-hearted have a great many requests to lend.

It is not only in time of pressing need that people want to borrow, but ofttimes in order to provide luxuries. Then the next easy step is to become careless in repaying. Some do return their loans on the day, but many never repay at all. It is a fatal habit to fall into—this of borrowing and not paying. It is ruinous to character, for when one has become able to do it without worrying—letting the other person do the worrying—one has run down to a low moral state. Then the penalty on the man who does not pay his debts is inexorably exacted by society.

Who art thou that judgest another man's servant ?—Romans 14:4.

r 11 HE law of love requires us continually

.■. to give up our rights and liberties for the sake of other people. We are not to hold others to our way of thinking. We are never to despise any one's conscientious scruples, but are always to honor them. "Who art thou that j udgest the servant of another? To his lord he standeth or falleth." There are some people who thoughtlessly make it very hard for those who are troubled in conscience about doing certain things or indulging in certain pleasures. Every one must follow his own conscience, and it is very wrong for us to worry any one concerning his conscientious opinions. Our chief thought should be not to put a stumbling-block in any one's way. So we must be ready to give up anything, however right it may seem to us, that might lead another, a weaker person, to stumble into sin. The Christian who is not ready to give up any habit of his for the sake of others, has not yet learned the meaning of the great law of love, "Love seeketh not its

Let us therefore follow after the things…wherewith one may edify another.—Romans 14:19.

PAUL has a great deal to say in his epistles about edifying. We are to follow after things whereby we may edify one another. "Edify" is an architectural word. To edify is to build up. We are builders. Human lives everywhere are unfinished buildings, and every one who passes by lays a block on the wall or adds an ornament to the structure. A hundred people touch you each day, in business contracts, in social fellowships, in friendships, in letters, in transient meetings, and every one of them builds something on the wall of your life, either something that will add to the adornment of your character or something that will mar and disfigure it. Every one who comes into our presence even for a moment, who speaks a word to us, even every one who reaches us most remotely with his influence, leaves some line of beauty or some mark of marring on our character. We are exhorted to be careful that in all we do to others we really edify them.

I beseech you,…that ye strive together with me in your prayers to God for me.—Romans 15:30.

T TAPPY is he who has friends who pray for him. Paul earnestly beseeches his friends to pray for him. He felt constant need of remembrance in prayer. There is nothing our friends could do for us that would mean half so much to us as to speak our names to God. A little boy, after family worship, conducted by a guest, in which the child's name had been mentioned, said to his mother, "I am so glad Dr. Lyman told God my name. He'll know me now when He sees me." There is great comfort in knowing that others pray for us.

Then there is no way in which we can help others so wisely as by praying for them. We do not know what our friends need. Our way of trying to help them may do them more harm than good. We may relieve them of burdens or cares that God wanted them to keep and carry for a while, for their own good. If, however, we ask God to help them by making them strong, He will do for them only that which is best.

Salute the beloved Persis, which labored much in the Lord. —Romans 16:12.

THIS is one of the chapters a good many Bible readers think they can skip with impunity. It is little but a list of names of people we do not know anything about. Really, however, there are no chapters we can afford to miss. In this sixteenth chapter of Romans there is a good deal more than a list of names. Each mention of a person has a condensed biography attached to it.

It is wonderful how much we will know about these Roman Christians when we meet them in heaven, if only we make a study of all that we are told about them here. Take one name as illustration. " Salute Persis the beloved, who labored much in the Lord." She was "beloved," a woman of such sweet life that, like John, she was called "the beloved." She had "labored "—past tense; now she was laid aside, perhaps a shut-in. She had "labored much "—constantly, not sparing herself. It was "in the Lord" that she had labored—that she had wrought so faithfully.

There is utterly a fault among you, because ye go to law one with another.—1 Corinthians 6:7.

HRISTIANS ought to live together in

love. They should never quarrel among themselves. They are brethren, and brother should not have strife with brother. If they have differences, they should settle them among themselves, and not go to law before unbelievers. Paul said it was a defect in the Corinthian Christians, that they had lawsuits one with another. He intimates that they should rather take wrong, and even be defrauded, than go to law for redress.

Jesus also taught that His followers should not resist him that was evil. When one smites them on one cheek, they should turn to him the other also. Retaliation is certainly forbidden, and so is resentment. Then we need not fear that we will go too far "in letting" people wrong us rather than go to law to get our rights. We must be very sure, however, that we do not do wrong to others. Some people are more watchful over the way others treat them than of their own treatment of others.

As the Lord hath called every one, so let him walk.—1 Con. 7:17.

THE religion of Christ touches every phase of life. No question of duty can ever arise, but the gospel has a bearing upon it. It teaches great principles which apply to all relations of life. There is a Christian way of meeting every experience. Paul shows in this chapter how a Christian should act in certain matters with which some might say religion has nothing to do. We may learn that there is no path on which Christ does not walk with us.

The Rev. Dr. W. J. Dawson preached a sermon on "the unavoidable Christ." We never can get away from Him. There is no part of the world where we would be beyond His authority. There is no experience of life in which we do not need to ask Him what He would have us do. There are no possible relationships in which the teaching of Christ has no word of duty for us. There are no tasks in which we do not need to have His help. There are no lines of duty in which we do not need the light of His Spirit.

// meat make my brother to offend, I will eat no flesh while the world standeth.—1 Cob. 8:13.

IT is not enough to know that a certain course is not wrong, that we have a right to do certain things. If there were no other people in the world but ourselves, none to be considered in deciding what we may do or may not do, it would be easy to settle on our duty. But there are other people everywhere, and we have got to think of them in deciding what we have a right to do. A man has a right to have a big, bawling talking-machine in his house, and to have it going every night till midnight. It is nobody's matter but his own. But suppose there is a sick man living next door, and that the noise of the machine disturbs him at night, what is the duty of the man with the talking-machine? Love comes in then, and tells him he must give up his "right" and sacrifice his pleasure for the sake of another.

Love is a most exacting master. It makes us give up our rights and our pride and our ease—nothing can stand before it.

It were better for me to die, than that any man should make my glorying void.—1 Corinthians 9:15.

DR. GEORGE MACDONALD says somewhere that the grandest thing about our rights is that being our own we can give them up if we wish. Paul asserts that he had certain undisputed rights as an apostle, a minister of Christ. He quotes Old Testament law to prove it. It was forbidden to muzzle the ox when he was treading out the corn. It was not merely the ox that was in God's mind when He gave this law, but His own servants. They had a right to support from those for whom they labored. Yet Paul had renounced his rights in this regard. He preached the gospel without charge.

A great many pastors and Christian workers do the same in whole or in part. All who love Christ should be ready to make every needful sacrifice in doing His work, in carrying His gospel to others. The Church seems to be waking up now to the greatness of its responsibility for the salvation of the world. We should shrink from no toil or cost in winning souls.

So run, that ye may obtain.—1 Cob. 9:24.

CHRISTIAN life is not meant to be easy. We must pay the price for any success we may achieve. The schoolboy, if he would win honors, must work hard for them. In the ancient games those who ran in the race bent every energy to reach the goal. Those who were to take part in athletic contests of any kind prepared for the struggle by the .most rigorous self-discipline, so that their bodies might be strong for whatever they would do.

Paul, however, is not giving advice, nor laying down rules for athletes, but uses these contests to illustrate what the Christian must do. He will meet temptations at every point. But temptations are not meant to be danger-points in life—they are meant to be opportunities for growing strong. We must make up our mind to the fact that the harder our struggles are, the greater honor and power are set before us to be won. And there will come to us no temptation but such as we can bear, and God will help us always to be victorious.

Whether therefore ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God.—1 Corinthians 10:31.

NOTHING in life is left out—" whatsoever ye do." It extends even to eating and drinking. We are to do all things to the glory of God. This means that we must do everything in a way that will please Him. To eat to the glory of God is to recognize Him as the Giver of our daily bread, to seek His blessing on it, to eat according to the divine laws, eating to be ready for the best service, and then to use all our strength in doing the work which God gives us to do. One who eats self-indulgently or gluttonously, or who eats food that is injurious to his health, or who does not use the strength he derives from his food in living obediently, is not glorifying God.

In all our life, in everything we do, we are to think of what will honor God. We are to seek first His kingdom and righteousness, which includes the law of love—the things that will bless those about us. Selfishness never glorifies God, but He is always pleased with the love that seeketh not its own.

This do in remembrance oj Me.—1 Corinthians 11:24.

HE Lord's Supper is the most sacred

.■. of the ordinances of Christian worship. It is a service of memorial—" This do in remembrance of Me." Jesus showed His humanness in His desire to be remembered. It is one proof of immortality that we cannot bear to think of being forgotten.

Jesus wants us to remember Him, however, not merely at His table, now and then, but all the while. If we keep Him thus ever in memory it will bless our lives in many ways. It will transform us into His likeness; thinking much of others makes us like them. It will keep us from doing wrong or sinful things. Even the picture of a good man makes us ashamed to do things he would disapprove. Remembering Christ keeps our hearts warm with love for Him. We are kept in mind of the sweetness of His love and of all that He has done for «us, and we are constrained to love Him. Remembering Christ will make us happy, for we shall never forget that He is our Friend and is with us all the days.

There are diversities of gifts, but the same spirit.—1 Cob. 12:4.

PEOPLE differ greatly in their gifts and capacities. It is wisely ordered that they do. If all had the same gifts, one kind of work would be overdone and other kinds would not be done at all. But as there are countless things needing to be done, so there is the greatest variety in the abilities of people, and thus there is a hand for every task.

The capacity for usefulness that we have is not accidental. "To each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit to profit withal." We should never forget that our ability is God's gift to us. This ought to save us from envying others who have abilities that seem more brilliant than ours. God gave them their capacities and God gave us ours. He had a reason—He wanted us to do a certain kind of work, to fill a certain place, and He had another place and work for them. All we need to do is to make the most of the ability God has given to us, and to do the best work we can do.

The greatest of these is charity.—1 Cob. 13:13.

OVE is the greatest of all the Spirit's

.*—^ gifts. The power to love is the best of all the powers God has bestowed upon us. The lesson of love is taught us in this chapter in words we should memorize and never forget. "Love suffereth long, and is kind." Love is very patient with those who may not be gentle or thoughtful. Nothing makes it bitter or resentful. It is kind, not to the good only, but also to the evil. "Love envieth not; love vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, doth not behave itself unseemly." It is humble and lowly, not proud. It is not envious of those who seem to be more highly favored. It is sweet-tempered, does not fly into a passion, never acts rudely. "Love seeketh not its own, is not provoked, taketh not account of evil." It forgets self altogether, and seeks only the good of others. It sees the good in others, and not the faults and defects. It does not rejoice in the failure or misfortune of others, but in their success. It beareth all things, endureth all things— never faileth.

Now is Christ risen from the dead.—1 Corinthians 15:20.

THE resurrection of Christ is the keystone of the arch of gospel truth. Paul makes it very plain that if the resurrection did not take place, there is no salvation. "If Christ hath jiot been raised, then is our preaching vain,…your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins. Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ have perished." All the hopes of Christian faith waited those three days at the sealed grave of Jesus. "But now hath Christ been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of them that are asleep." Then because He hath been raised, your faith is not vain, and all your hopes are sure and eternal; you are not in your sins, the redemption was accepted; then those who have fallen asleep in Christ have not perished, but are alive forevermore.

Christ rose as the firstfruits of the great harvest, and all who sleep in Him shall come too at the last day. The firstfruit was a pledge that it would be gathered. in and a sample of what the final harvest would be.

How are the dead raised up? and with what body do they come f—1 Corinthians 15:35.

THERE is great mystery about the future life. What kind of bodies will our dead have when they come again? We do not know. All that people tell us in trying to answer the question is only a guess, for no one has been through the gate and come back again to tell us of the experience— no one but Jesus Himself.

Paul's answer about the seed means that the body which will come again will be the same, yet not the same. The very seed sown does not come up, but something more lovely, a plant with life and foliage, blossoms and fruit. This tells us that the body of the resurrection will be far more beautiful than the body we lay in the grave. In another place Paul tells us that the body of our humiliation shall be fashioned anew, that it may be conformed to the body of Christ's glory. That is enough to know. We may safely leave all this in the hands of God, to whom belong all secret things, assured that no mind can conceive the blessing God has prepared for us.

Now concerning the collection.—1 Con. 16:1.

TT is remarkable that the next sentence, -1 after the conclusion of the wonderful chapter about the resurrection of Christ and His people, begins—" Now concerning the collection." It seems at first like a startling descent from the sublime truths of the resurrection and immortality to "the collection." But at the back of even the smallest duty lie all the glorious truths of Christianity.

Then we should not think of "the collection" in a church service as a minor or unimportant part of the worship. The collection of which St. Paul spoke here was for the saints who were suffering in famine, and he called upon their brothers to share their plenty with them. That was a sacred and holy duty. Always the collection is important—it is an offering to God. The giving is part of the worship, and not a secular interruption of the service. We should give our money to God just as we give our praise, our love. The collection is holy, and should be taken reverently. Jesus sits over against the treasury, and sees how men give.

Who comforteth us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort.—2 Cob. 1:4.

NO message of the Bible is more universally needed in this world than the message of comfort. Many we meet every day are in sorrow. They may wear no weeds of mourning, but not all sorrow hangs out its token.

Our lesson today is one of comfort. First, we are reminded of God's comfort— "who comforteth us in all our affliction." He is called the " God of all comfort." Then we are told that one reason He comforts us is " that we may be able to comfort them that are in any affliction, through the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God." Part of our work in this world, therefore, is to be comforters of others. The comfort we get from God we are to pass on. One reason we are called or permitted to suffer is that we may become comforters. This is one of the blessings of sorrow: we are prepared in it for being helpers of others. We should be willing to suffer, that we may receive God's comfort, and then go out to comfort others.

That ye might knrni) the love which I have more abundantly unto you.—% Cob. 2:4.

IT is sometimes the duty of love to cause pain to those who are dear. Paul made his friends sorry, but it was that he might make them glad afterwards. If we see a friend doing that which is wrong, and say not a word to seek to win him back, we have failed in our faithfulness. Our silence encourages him in his evil course. Yet it is not easy to tell others of their mistakes and sins. It requires great love and wisdom to do it in such a way that it will not do harm rather than good. Paul tells us how he did this delicate duty. "Out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote unto you with many tears." He reveals also his motive. "Not that ye should be made sorry, but that ye might know the love which I have more abundantly unto you." We are never ready to tell another of his sin unless we love him. One minister asked another one Monday what he preached on the day before. "The wrath of God," was the answer. "Did you do it tenderly? " his friend asked.

Ye are manifestly declared to be the epistle 0} Christ ministered by us.—2 Cob. 3:3.

IT is a great thing to have the pen of a ready writer and to have it consecrated to Christ. There are few ways in which one may do more good in the world than by writing letters to those whom one would help. Paul was a great letter-writer. When he could not visit the churches, he would write to them, giving them advice, comforting, cheering, and instructing them.

Paul speaks here of another kind of letters that he wrote—letters written on people's lives. We may write letters of this kind too. Every time we put a new thought into any other heart, we have written a letter which will be read wherever the person goes. A new society has been started called "The League of the Golden Pen." Its motto is, " I write a letter at least once a month, in the spirit of Christ, to stranger, friend, or kin, to give cheer, courage, or counsel." The thought is a beautiful one, and those who read these words could do nothing better than begin to follow this rule.

We are troubled on every Me, yet not distressed.—2 Cor.

E who are Christians should strive

» » always to live a victorious life. Of course we will have our burdens, our struggles, our trials, our sufferings, but we should never be defeated or crushed by them. Our Scripture today sets the lesson for us. "We are pressed on every side, yet not straitened; perplexed, yet not unto despair;…smitten down, yet not destroyed." Our Master overcame the world. He was never once defeated. He wants us to live the same way. Of course we cannot do it ourselves, unhelped, but we may get help from Him, and be " more than conquerors through Him that loved us." Even if our physical life is broken, exhausted, destroyed, that need not be defeat. "Though our outward man is decaying, yet our inward man is renewed day by day." We have a glorious life within us which nothing in this world can touch. "We know that if the earthly house of our tabernacle be dissolved, we have a building from God,…eternal, in the heavens."

We labor, that, whether present or absent, we may be accepted of Him.—2 Cob. 5:9.

f I THE Christian should always be a worker

* for his Master. "We are ambassadors therefore on behalf of Christ, as though God were intreating by us." The mission of every one who believes and is saved is to be a winner of other souls. Our life itself should be a gospel of divine grace, so full of love that every one who comes under our influence, even casually, shall hear a silent message, pleading, "Be ye reconciled to

The life must always be such an ambassador, first, before we speak a word. The most eloquent pleading will have no effect in winning others to Christ unless the love of Christ be first shown in our life. "God loves you and I love you," is the only evangel that will reach hearts. You cannot kindle fire with ice. A selfish man cannot preach a gospel of love to others. The love of God which we declare must be interpreted in human love which we show in our own eager interest in others. We must bear the cross in our own life, or we need not talk about the cross on Calvary.

God.

God, that comforteth those that are cast down, comforteth us by the coming of Titus.—2 Cob. 7:6.

HOWEVER much we experience of the love of Christ, we all need human love. Paul lived very close to his Master. No manever had more of Christ. Yet his epistles show continually a longing for human sympathy, and a need for the human touch in his life. He is telling here of the weight that was upon him in Macedonia. " Our flesh had no relief, but we were afflicted on every side." Then he tells of a great blessing which God sent. " Nevertheless He that comforteth the lowly, even God, comforted us by the coming of Titus." Titus was a dear friend, and his coming gave the apostle new courage.

We are all alike—we need human sympathy and love. This suggests to us one way in which we can help others. All about us are continually those who are disheartened, whom we can cheer and strengthen by en* couraging words. No ministry we can choose in this world will mean more to others than a ministry of encouragement.

As ye abound in everything^…see thai ye abound in this grace also.—2 Cob. 8:7.

THE giving of money has no unimportant place in religion. It was distinctly said in the Old Testament that the bringing in of tithes and offerings would insure the pouring out of the Divine Spirit. Jesus made it plain that His friends must be ready to lay their money at His feet at His call. The members of the first Christian Church showed the most beautiful generosity toward the poor of their number, the rich selling their property and giving the proceeds to the apostles to supply the need of those who lacked.

In our reading today we have the lesson taught very plainly. The Master began it. Though He was rich, yet for our sakes He became poor, that through His poverty we might be made rich. Giving is a grace which may not be left out of the Christian life. The strong must help the weak. The love of God does not dwell in that man who, with plenty of his own, sees his brother have need and shutteth his heart's compassion against him.

Touching the ministering to the saints.—2 Coe. 9:1.

JUDAS said that Mary was wasting her ointment when she poured it upon the head and feet of the Master. Jesus, however, defended Mary, saying she had wrought a good work on Him. Some people think that giving money to benevolent objects is wasting it. Paul shows us that what we give to God is never wasted. He uses the illustration of the seed when one sows in a field. It is not wasted—it grows up into a harvest. Our reaping shall be in proportion to our sowing. If we sow sparingly, we shall reap also sparingly. But if we sow bountifully, we shall reap also bountifully.

Miserliness is far away from the spirit of Christ. He who detects such a disposition ever beginning in him should instantly get it crowded out. There is a story of a Christian man, one of whose ships was delayed. He began to grow anxious about the possible loss, and he was so grieved with himself that he at once took the value of the missing ship and gave it to some sacred cause.

We dare not make ourselves of the number…that commend themselves.—2 Corinthians 10:12.

WE have nothing of our own to gloryin. Glorying in one's self is selfconceit, and self-conceit is never beautiful —it is always unlovely. Even if a man's high estimate of himself is correct, it is not a beautiful thing in him that he should glory in his goodness, or his power, or his wisdom. We are in the habit of saying that when one knows he is bright, his brightness is dimmed. When a pretty child knows she is handsome, her air of self-consciousness mars the beauty. When Moses came down from communing with God on the mount, his face was shining. The people saw the luster on his countenance, but the record says, "Moses wist not that his face shone." The truest greatness is never aware of itself.

It is said of certain persons in heaven that the name of Christ is on their foreheads—on their foreheads, where all others can see it, but where they cannot see it themselves. Let us not glory in ourselves. "But he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord."

If I must needs glory, I will glory of the things which concern mine infirmities.—2 Cob. 11:30.

TI THE patriot soldier's best credentials

*. are his wounds and scars. They are not disfigurements of which he is ashamed, but marks of honor, of which he is proud. An English soldier referred to his scars as his decorations. Paul speaks of his sufferings and persecutions and of the losses and trials he had endured as a minister as the credentials of his service, and as marks of honor and distinction. He even glories in them. "If I must needs glory, I will glory of the things that concern my weakness." In another of his epistles Paul speaks of these memorials of suffering and endurance as "marks of Jesus," which he bore branded on his body.

We are not at all accustomed to think in this way of the costs of our Christian discipleship. We are apt to complain of the things we have to suffer. But if we suffer for Christ, we may count ourselves honored. Jesus said, "Blessed are ye when men shall…persecute you."

My strength is made perfect in weakness.—2 Corinthians 12:9.

TT is comforting to think how fully our lives are in the hands of Christ, not only for protection, but also for spiritual discipline. The experience of Paul described in this chapter shows this in a striking way. He had a remarkable vision, being caught up to the third heaven. The danger now was that he should be exalted overmuch, because of the privilege he had enjoyed. To prevent this, there was given to him a "thorn in the flesh," to buffet him and to keep him humble. This " thorn " was a messenger of Satan, and yet was used in his spiritual discipline. He pleaded to have it taken away, but the request was not granted, because it was necessary to him. Instead of removing the thorn, however, the Lord assured him of the grace needed to enable him to endure. When he saw the meaning of it all and heard the divine promise, he began to rejoice in his weaknesses, since because of these he would have larger measures of the strength of Christ.

I seek not yours, but you.—2 Cob. 12:14.

THE desire of all true friendship is not to get, but to give, not to be served, but to serve. In all Paul's letters we find that he is eager to do people good, never having the desire to be profited by them. We have this in these words, "I seek not yours, but you." He would not be a burden to them. It was not the part of children to lay up for their parents, but for parents to lay up for their children, and he was to them as a father. He would most gladly spend and be spent for their spiritual welfare.

Paul's interest in them was not fully appreciated, for the more he loved them the less did they love him. But this did not affect his care for them—he still loved them, and was ever eager to do them good. He sought not theirs, but them. This little sentence tells the whole story of true friendship. It is the true minister's motto. It should be every man's desire for his neighbor. It is always love's motto—" Not yours, but you."

1 marvel that ye are so soon removed from Him that called you.—Galatians 1:6.

THAT which counts for most in Christian life is steadfastness, holding on through all discouragements, all hindrances. Some people make a brilliant start, and then lose their enthusiasm. That seems to have been the trouble with the Galatians. Paul says, "I marvel that ye are so quickly removing from Him that called you in the grace of Christ unto a different gospel." In another of his epistles he begins by thanking God for those to whom he was writing for their faithfulness, their loyalty? their devotion to the truth. But he begins this epistle by marveling at the lack of seriousness and of steadfastness in the Galatians.

When certain persons desired to become Christ's followers, He said to them, "If ye continue in My word, then are ye My disciples indeed." It is the continuance with Christ as believers and as His followers that proves our discipleship. We should have our feet on the rock and should cleave to Christ, whatever the pressure may be. It is a great

thing to be fixed and stable.

/ live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me.—Galatians 2:20. flHE true Christian life is a re-incarna

puts it in the closing verses of our chapter. He had been crucified with Christ. Yet he was not dead. Rather, he was dead, and another lived in his place. "It is no longer I that live, but Christ liveth in me."

The man who lived in this house by the side of the road died recently and his house was left empty. But it did not long remain empty. Immediately another man moved in, a man with different tastes and habitudes. Everything is changed in and about the place. Roughness, bitterness, and selfishness have given way to refinement, sweetness, and love. Within the house are peace, song, and affection. Outside, sweet flowers pour their fragrance on the air. This is a wonderful picture of what takes place when a bad man becomes a Christian. The new life is Christ living in the man, and where Christ lives all is beauty and blessing. The old wilderness becomes a rose garden. Sin gives way to holiness.

Christ. That is the way Paul

Ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jems.— Galatians 3:26.

rilHERE is a great deal of struggling

for honor and place in this world. Men think if they can get a few million dollars they have reached distinction. Or they think if they can get a high office they have won one of earth's best prizes. There are some also who spend their life in trying to get recognition in society. How pitiful all this must appear to those who look down from heaven upon this earth!

Paul shows us here what is really the highest rank to which man can attain. He says, "Ye are all sons of God, through faith, in Christ Jesus." To be a son of God is immeasurably higher than being in the most aristocratic circles. To be an heir of God is to be infinitely richer than to be the owner of millions.

When the disciples asked who was greatest, they were thinking only of earthly standards. To be like a little child is to be great. To serve others is the heavenliest occupation to which anyone can put his hands. To be Christlike is glory.

Am I therefore become your enemy, because I tell you the truth?—Galatians 4:16.

PAUL did not have a very comfortable time with his Galatian Christians. It was not easy to get along with them. He was frequently required to be severe with them. They were not dependable in their moods toward him. Today they would give their lives for him, tomorrow they were angry at him. "Ye received me as an angel of God.…I bear you wjtness, that, if possible, ye would have plucked out your eyes and given them to me." Then the next sentence reads: "Am I become your enemy, by telling you the truth?" They could not bear correction.

It is beautiful, however, to note Paul's mood toward them. He continued Faithful in his friendship, always seeking to do them good. Thus only can we be true helpers of others. We must love them, not only when they love us, but also when they are offended at us for our faithfulness. That is the way Christ loves us and teaches us. He is always considerate and patient, and never wearies in helping us.

We through the Spirit wait for the hope of righteousness by faith.—Gax,. 5:5.

^—" is dependence on forms. People think that when they are keeping up certain rounds of service, certain ceremonials, they are meeting all the' requirements of religion. Thus, in our Lord's day, there were those who were punctilious in their observance of the rites of their church, yet whom Jesus condemned uns.paringly because their hearts were wrong.

Paul makes it plain that not forms, but life; make one a Christian. "In Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision; but faith working through love." The question was not whether a man had conformed to the requirements of the Jewish law, or had not, but whether he believed on Jesus Christ, and whether his life was according to the law of love. We need to remember this in the testing of our own lives. It is not the particular church we belong to, and the religious ceremonies we observe, by which our spiritual state is determined, but our inner and outward life.

of the dangers of religious life

If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit.— Gai>. 5:25.

THE best way to get evil out of our hearts is to let good in. We have it in Paul's counsel: "Walk by the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh." If the Spirit leads us, it will be toward more and more of Christ; for He will kindle in our hearts more love for the Savior, and we shall become more and more deeply interested in the work of Christ. The result will be that we shall care less and less for the world.

Dr. Chalmers preached a sermon on these words of Paul's, calling it "The Expulsive Power of a New Affection." A great love for Christ in a heart will expel all other loves that are not holy and pure. The evil things that are to be expelled are named in this same chapter. It is a terribly black list. The only way to keep them out is to get so filled with the things in the white list, that there will be no room for the evil things of the black list. Light drives out darkness. Love expels hate. Holiness displaces sin.

Bear ye one another's burdens., and so fulfill the law of Christ.—Galatians 6:2.

f I ^HERE are two words here about burdens. We are told to bear one another's burdens. This is the law of love—called here the law of Christ. That is the way Christ Himself does, and that is also His law for us. No one is a Christian who is not at least learning to live in this way. That is love's way. Everyone we meet has some burden, some need, and we are to seek to be the helper of everyone in some way.

The other word seems to be just the reverse. "Each man shall bear his own burden." After all that we can do for others, each one has to live his own life, has to carry his own load. We cannot choose for any other, we cannot repent for another, we cannot believe for another. The gentlest, most loving mother cannot bear her child's pain, cannot do her child's duty, cannot get her child's sins forgiven. In the parable the wise virgins could not share their oil with the foolish. This was not disobligingness—it is the law of life, that each must bear his own burden.

He hath chosen us in Him before the foundation of the world.—Ephesians 1:4.

THIS is not a world of chance—it is our Father's world. Events do not happen without any order or any direction. No one can sanely doubt that there is a great divine plan running through the ages which includes all things and subordinates all forces and all experiences to itself. Our Scripture passage is full of this great thought. "He chose us in Him (in Christ) before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy." "Having foreordained us unto adoption as sons through Jesus Christ." "Foreordained according to the purpose of Him who worketh all things after the counsel of His will."

We need not trouble ourselves to try to understand these great words, with their tremendous reach of meaning. We may say, however, at least, that they assure us of a divine thought for men, a divine love, a divine purpose of mercy, dating from this infinite past and running through the ages. And this truth assures us of our eternal safety in Christ our Redeemer.

All the building fitly framed together grcnveth unto an holy temple.—Ephesians 2:21.

THE Church is a glorious spiritual temple. Christ Himself is the corner stone. Nothing is built safely in this world which does not rest on Christ. All these centuries believers in Christ have been built into the walls which are rising continually. The temple is not yet completed, and will not be until the last to accept Christ is built into it.

Everyone of us is a block on this mystic wall. Large stones and small are used. The smallest is just as important as the largest. If left out, there would be a place left empty where there ought to have been a stone. Each one has his place in the temple. Then, in turn, each of us becomes a foundation for others to build on. We must be sure that those who rest on us, trust us, depend on us, shall never be disappointed. The other day it was seen that the stones in a building were breaking. At one spot there had been a rotten stone, and it had crumbled and the stones over it had sunk. We must be good stones that never will crumble.

Be careful for nothing.—Philippians 4:6.

HOW to learn not to worry is one of the lessons everyone should master. Worry is a terribly wasteful experience. It uses up the strength we need for our duty. It unfits us for doing our work well. It is dishonoring to God, for He has promised to care for us, if only we do His will faithfully. Then it is utterly fruitless, for it does not take away the things it frets over.

The Bible gives many lessons on the subject, but none that makes plainer just how we are to eliminate worrying from our life than what Paul here tells us to do. First of all, we are simply not to worry. " In nothing be anxious." There is no room for exceptions, special circumstances, and all that. We are not to be anxious about anything. What then shall we do with the matters that we are disposed to worry over? Put them into the hands of God in prayer, and leave them there. If we do this the peace of God will guard our hearts, our thoughts, from all anxiety. It will be a great deal to us in every way to learn this lesson.

We…do not cease to pray for you.—Colossians 1:9.

SOME people pray for their friends, but ask only for things of lower or less importance—that they may have good health, that they may get on well in worldly affairs, that they may prosper socially. These are proper enough blessings to ask for our friends, but they are not the first things. Paul, in praying for his friends, asks for them the highest and greatest things. He requests that they may be filled with the knowledge of God's will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding; that they may walk worthily of the Lord unto all pleasing; that they may bear fruit in every good work; that they may increase in the knowledge of God; and that they may be strengthened with all power unto all patience and longsuffering with joy.

Could we do better than to pray Paul's prayer for our friends? These are blessings which we know they need and which God is willing to give to them. We need never fear that in asking for such things we are seeking for blessings that will perish in the using.

Who…fill up that which is behind of the afflictions o) Christ.—Colossians 1:24.

THIS is a strange saying of Paul's in our reading today—that he must fill up on his part the afflictions of Christ. Was Christ's sacrifice insufficient for the redemption of the world? Was His work incomplete? Do others have to suffer also to fill up a lack in His atonement? No; on His cross He said, "It is finished." He paid the whole price.

What Paul meant was that while Christ had made a full and glorious redemption, His followers must enter into His experiences in order to present the benefits of His redempti6n. We can make men believe in the love of Christ only by loving as He loved. We can show them the cross truly only in our own lives. Christ gave Himself once to redeem the world; now we, His followers, must give ourselves to make His redemption real to the world. When we ask Christ to have compassion on men, His answer is: "I have had compassion—My part is finished. Now do you have compassion and reach and save men."

If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above.—Colossians 3:1.

EVERY Christian life should have the upward look. The Greek word for man suggests one who looks up. If we believe on Christ we are one with Him, dying in Him. So Paul says: " If then ye were raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is."

Becoming a Christian, then, makes us a citizen of heaven. We live yet in this world, but our true home is above, where Christ is. Heaven's joys should be our joys. Heaven's life should be our life.

"Your life is hid with Christ in God." This means that we are sheltered in Christ. It means also our life has its sources of strength, of nourishment, of help, in Christ. Our hearts and eyes should be drawn away therefore from things earthly to things heavenly. We ought to live for things above. We ought to set our minds on things that are above, not on things that are on the earth. While we stay here for a little while, we are going on to heaven, where we shall live forever.

Do all in the name of the Lord Jesus.—Colossians 3:17.

IF we belong to Christ in heaven, we must make our lives here on earth correspond with the life of heaven. The things that we do should be the things they do in heaven. Our prayer is, "Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven." So we are to mortify, or make dead, all the things in our lives that are not right, or that are not done in heaven. This includes all desires and all acts and dispositions that are not white and clean. We are to be in this world, walking in the midst of its evil, and are yet to keep ourselves unspotted from the world. The, list of things we are to put away is a frightful one. It does not seem possible that we ever shall incline to do these things, and yet we are always in danger of doing them.

There are things also which we are to "put on," and these are all beautiful things —a heart of compassion, kindness, lowliness, meekness: we should write off the list and keep it where we may see it continually.

Let your speech be alway with grace, seasoned with salt.— Colossians 4:6.

THE New Testament has a great deal to say about speech. Jesus spoke of men's words—idle words which have to be accounted for in the judgment, contemptuous words which bring upon him who uses them severe condemnation, words which test life—by which one is either justified or condemned.

Paul, too, refers frequently to speech. Here we have a very suggestive exhortation on the subject. Our speech should always be with grace. Grace means fitting, beautiful. We should learn to speak so that our tones of voice and our manner of speech shall be winning and attractive. Grace means also something under divine influence. We should speak words permeated with love and inspired by the Holy Spirit.

Jenny Lind said she always sang to God. A Christian should always speak to God, to please Him. Our speech should be "seasoned with salt." Salt purifies. Our words should be pure and cleansing—loving, gentle, helpful, inspiring.

/ Paid have written it with mine own hand.—Phjlem. 19.

THIS is one of Paul's prison epistles. A prison is not an ideal place for usefulness. Yet no years of the apostle's life were more fruitful of good than when he was a prisoner. He wrote letters to the churches he could not visit, and to individuals he wished to help, and these letters not only carried blessings to those to whom they were first written, but they have been carrying blessings ever since to countless lives.

This letter was written in behalf of a slave, a runaway, who had come under Paul's influence at Rome and had been converted. The slave was going back to his old master, and the apostle wrote a letter to bespeak the man's kindly interest in his slave. We may write letters of congratulation when one has had some happiness, some new honor conferred, or has won some new success. We may write letters of sympathy to the sorrowing, of cheer to the discouraged, of thanks for kindness. It is good to have a pen with a golden nib, and to use it for the Master.

Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.—Mark 11:9.

JESUS was the people's idol that day. Did He suppose that now at the last they were going to accept Him as their Messiah? No; He knew it was only the outburst of an hour, and that this triumphal pageant was but the first stage of His last journey to His cross. As He heard the song, "Hosanna to the Son of David," there was a deep undertone ringing in His ear:

"Ride on, ride on in majesty,

In lowly pomp ride on to die."

The triumphal ride was our Lord's final declaration of His Messiahship. He fulfilled an ancient prophecy, and thus clearly announced that He was the King foretold.

We cannot but think of the fickleness of earthly enthusiasm. Five days later Jesus was led in another procession to His cross. A picture by Tintoretto gives the scene of the Crucifixion, after all was over. The crosses stand empty, the people are gone. In the background an ass is nibbling some withered palm leaves.

Grant unto us that we may sit, one on Thy right hand, and the other on Thy left hand, in Thy glory.—Mark 10:37.

HEN we ask to be near Christ and

» » to honor Him, we do not know what we are seeking. James and John were sincere in their love for Jesus and their interest in His kingdom, but they were ignorant of the nature of that kingdom. They had earthly ideas of it, and in asking for the highest places they were thinking of official rank. Still, they were sincere when Jesus asked them if they were able to pay the price. They said truthfully, "We are able." And they proved their words true. As the true meaning of the kingdom was made known to them afterwards, they did not falter, but drank the cup and accepted the baptism.

We think only of pleasure as we devote ourselves to Christ and begin to follow Him. We say we are ready for whatever the Master may have for us to do or to suffer. We do not know what we are pledging, but we need not hesitate. Anything of sacrifice or suffering for Him will be gain and glory in the end.

Whosoever shall give you a cup of water to drink in my name…he shall not lose his reward.—Mark 9:41.

TESUS set up three monuments in His

*-» Gospels. One was to the widow who gave the two mites. Another was to the woman who anointed His head and feet, the story of whose deed is enshrined in the Gospels. The other is the one referred to here—the person who gives the cup of cold water to a disciple in the Master's name. It is not great things that make men great in heaven's sight—it is the love that is in what they do. The least act of kindness done in Christ's name is greater than the building of a city for personal glory.

Jesus loved children. He is always the children's Friend. He tells us that no crime is greater than causing a little child to stumble. Heaven is always on the children's side. The cry of a wronged child is heard in heaven. The children's angels have special and immediate access into God's presence at all times. Whoever else may have to wait God's pleasure any day, they are always admitted promptly.

Is a candle brought to be put under a…bed?—Mark 4:21.

HRIST wants His followers to let their

light shine. He does not want them to hide it away, but to hold it where it will brighten the world. We are to be the world's light, to lighten the darkness. Goodness is light. Kindness is light. Christ himself is the Light of the world, and all who love Him become little lights which He kindles and which shine with something of His brightness. He wishes us to be like lamps, our light shining wherever we are. Grace begins in the heart in small and quiet ways, but grows in beauty, strength, and usefulness. The little leaven hidden in the lump works out till all is leavened.

Jesus is Master over the waves and winds. The wild storm had no terror for Him. He slept through it all because the peace of God was in His heart. When He was wakened He quieted the wind and stilled the waves by a word. We need not be afraid in any storm, for Christ can control it and can keep us from being hurt by it.

The sower soweth the word.—Mark 4:14.

HAT comes of all the sermons? The

» » parable of the Sower helps us to answer. Only on one kind of soil did the seed sown come to anything, while that sown on three other kinds of ground failed to produce any harvest.

It is the same with the good seed of God's Word. Some of it never gets into the heart at all. Birds pick it off as soon as it falls. Some of it starts well enough, but has not root sufficient to hold it amid temptation or persecution. Some of the good seed gets a deep rooting, and would yield a fine harvest, but for other things already in the heart, preoccupying it, so that the wheat is choked out. Love of money, love of pleasure, the frets of life, and other things, crowd out the growing grain, so that none of it can ever come to ripeness.

We should seek to be good soil, that the word sown in our hearts may grow and yield fruits of righteousness. The words of God are heavenly seeds, and where they grow, plants from heaven's gardens are produced.

The Son of Man is Lord also of the Sabbaih.—Mark 2:28.

JESUS remembered the Sabbath day, and kept it holy. But He did not put Himself under the burdensome rules and regulations which His people followed. He taught them that the Sabbath was to be man's friend, not his taskmaster. In His own observance of the day, He attended the church services and took every opportunity to speak His Father's words to those who were present. He went on with His ministry of kindness and helpfulness on the Sabbath, just as on other days—healing the sick, casting out demons, delivering those who were in trouble.

If we follow the example of Jesus, the Sabbath will be a blessing to us and not a burden. Some people find it a day of wearisomeness. But if they loved Christ in such a real way as to find delight in His company and in His work, the day would prove to be one of pleasure to them. Its purpose is to prepare us physically, mentally, and spiritually for the life and work of the week days that follow.

Jesus perceived in His spirit that they so reasoned within themselves.—Mark 2:8.

HRIST sees into people's lives and

knows all that is going on in them. He saw faith in the men who brought their friend to Him that he might be healed. Then He saw into the man's own life, its past and its present, and knew that the paralysis was not his worst trouble, that he needed more to have his sins forgiven than to have his sickness cured. He also read the thoughts of the scribes. They reasoned in their hearts, and Jesus knew their thoughts. Then He saw in the publican the qualities which fitted him for being an apostle.

It should be both a restraint and an encouragement for us to think that Christ knows all about us—the most secret things, that we can hide nothing from Him. It should make us most careful how we live. Then it should be an inspiration to us, encouraging us always to be Faithful. He knows when we try, though we fail. He knows when we are sincere, though in our weakness we do wrong. He knew that Peter loved Him, though he had denied Him.

It was determined tluit we should sail into Italy.—Acts 27:1.

GOD has many ways of getting His servants to their work. Now, missionaries are usually sent by mission boards. Paul went to his field at the cost of Rome. We may safely leave ourselves in God's hands and let Him both give us our work and guide us to it. Though a landsman, and also a prisoner, Paul seems to have known more about what it was safe to do and what unsafe than any other man on the ship. It must have been through divine enlightening that he admonished the centurion of the danger of the voyage, urging him not to leave Crete.

Paul had good reason for exhorting the ship's company to be of good cheer. On that storm-tossed vessel he was in communication with Heaven. An angel of God had assured him that night that he must stand before Caesar. Therefore he could not perish in the sea. Moreover, in answer to his prayers, all his companions would be spared, too. God's hand rules the storms, and we may always trust in His love and care.

My manner of life from my youth…know all the Jews.—A era 26:4.

IT is a great thing when a man can confidently appeal to his own past. Paul could challenge his enemies to find anything against him from his youth up. The only way we can be ready to make such appeal is to watch all our years, from the youngest.

It is a great thing when a man has a religion about which he is sure. Too many people's religion is vague. Paul knew Him whom he trusted. He knew that He was the Messiah, the Savior, and told Agrippa why he knew it, and why he had given his life to witnessing for Christ to all men.

Some people talk in these days as if the thought of the raising of the dead is incredible. Paul did not think it an incredible belief. God has all power—can He not bring up from death those who have died? If He can create from nothing, can He not bring back the dead?

Jesus gave Paul no time for grief over his terrible mistake. " Arise, and stand upon thy feet!" He was to show his penitence not in tears, but by service.

He went and beheaded him in the prison.—Mark 6:27

JESUS knows how His followers can best serve Him. He sent the apostles out to teach and heal. John the Baptist, however, He permitted to be seized, to languish in prison, and to be put to death.

We should be willing to serve our Master in the way He points out. He may want us to give a long life to active usefulness, or He may want us to serve and honor Him by enduring persecution and suffering wrong.

The life of John seemed to be a failure. He preached only a few months. He was a great preacher, too, and hundreds went to hear him. It seemed to his friends a pitiful waste of life, an irreparable loss to the heavenly kingdom, when he was murdered. But John's work was done—all he was sent into the world to do. There really was no reason for his living an hour longer. When one dies in youth, we are apt to deplore his departure as untimely, but no mistake is made. "Every man is immortal till his work is done."

Heaven and earth shall pass away: but My words shall not pass away.—Mark 13:31.

THE Christian need never fear any calamities or judgments that can possibly come. Our Lord here foretells great destructions and troubles that would come upon the country. But He told. His disciples not to be afraid. No harm should come to them. They were only to take heed not to be led astray. If they would continue Faithful, they should be kept in perfect peace through all the perils. "He that shall endure to the end, the same shall be saved."

History tells us that when the terrible calamity came upon Jerusalem no Christians perished in the awful destruction, because they had been forewarned of the coming disaster and had obeyed their Master's command, all leaving the doomed city before the siege began, and finding safe refuge.

Always those who believe in Christ and obey His word are safe in any danger. Though the earth itself should be destroyed, God's children are safe in His love, from which nothing can separate them.

As they did eat, Jesus took bread, and blessed, and brake it, and gave to them.—Mark 14:22.

THE last day of our Lord's life on the earth was full of sacred memories. In the evening was the Last Supper. Jesus craved to be remembered. He was human, and none of us want to be forgotten. We desire especially to live in the hearts of those we love. Jesus gave the Holy Supper to be kept always, as a feast, in memory of Him.

If we always remember Christ, it will keep us Faithful to Him. He wants us to be as true and loyal in the midst of our week day cares and temptations as we are when sitting at His table. Remembering Christ will also transform us and make us like Him. Our thoughts make us. They are the builders of our character. If they are white and pure, they will build a temple of marble in us. If they are spotted and stained, they will make our lives spotted and stained. If we always remember Christ, we will grow up into the beauty of Christ. That is what the Lord's Supper is meant to help us to do.

He cometh, and findeth them sleeping.—Mark 14:37.

ONE of the saddest elements in the Gethsemane experience was the disappointment of Jesus in His disciples. He asked the three most loved of them to be near Him in His great agony. He craved the help of their sympathy. But when He came back to them, hoping to be strengthened by their love, He found them asleep.

A legend of the Brittany peasants tells how the robin got its red breast. As Jesus was being led out to Calvary, a bird, pitying Him, flew down and plucked one thorn from the crown of thorns He wore. The blood spurted from the wound and splashed the bird's breast. Ever since, the peasants say, the robin has had a spot of red on its breast in remembrance of its pity for the Master that day. The disciples had it in their power that night, not to pluck thorns from their Master's brow, but to strengthen Him by their sympathy. They missed their opportunity, however, and only made Gethsemane harder for Him.

Pilate…released Barablxu unto them, and delivered Jesus…to be crucified.—Mark 15:15.

T)ILATE'S was a most unenviable dis-■- tinction. No doubt he felt honored when he was made governor of Judaea. But the honor brought him a responsibility which proved his undoing. Pilate did not know, when he was called up so early that April morning, that that day was doomsday for him. He did not realize that he was about to make such a record of infamy for himself. He would better a thousand times have missed the honor of being governor and thus have escaped the making of the terrible mistake he made that day.

The way Pilate put the question was, not "What is right?" the only question a judge should ever ask, but, "What will advance my interest?" Jt was here that he wrecked all. Today he is gibbeted before the world as a judge who consciously sent an innocent man to a cross. A writer represents Pilate as washing his hands forever, and looking at them to find them forever stained. The spot will never wash off.

Who shall roll us away the stone?—Mark 16:3.

THE love of the women friends of Jesus shines out very brightly in all the story. He had healed and blessed them, and they followed Him from Galilee, ministering to Him, doing things for Him. They watched by His cross and wept by His grave. They had no hope or thought of His resurrection, but they loved on in their bitter disappointment, and sought to honor His body as it lay in the grave. They were sorely disappointed when they found not the body. But suppose they had found it in the grave! Their disappointment was the world's hope. The good news the angel told them quieted their fears, and dried their tears, and they went forth to be the first messengers of the resurrection.

It is interesting that Christ's first appearance was to a woman, one who loved most because she had been blessed most. The appearances of the forty days left all the disciples convinced that their Lord had risen indeed, and now believers all over the world rejoice in a living Savior.

That ye should earnestly contend for the faith.—Jude 3.

THIS little epistle is full of warnings against disobedience and unbelief. It. is well that we remember always that those who live in sin shall perish. The closing lines of the epistle are full of hope and encouragement for those who keep themselves in the love of God, and look for the mercy of Jesus Christ unto eternal life.

The benediction is singularly beautiful and rich in its assurance. Jesus Christ is able to keep us from stumbling in all our journey through the world. This is a wonderful promise and assurance. Life is full of dangers and temptations. We cannot keep ourselves. Heaven is promised to us, but heaven is far off and the way is perilous. How can we ever get there? Christ will care for us, keep us not only from falling, but even from stumbling. There is something else He will do—He will set us before the glory of God without blemish, at last. This twenty-fourth verse alone makes the whole epistle worthy of the place it holds in the sacred Scriptures.

1 was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision.—Acts 26:19.

HEAVENLY' visions are given us to show the possibilities of our lives. They are not meant to discourage us by their brightness and their beauty. They are revealings of what we may become, and we should be instantly obedient to them.

Paul is an example of a man who puts his beliefs at once into practice. Truth never was to him for mere ornament—it was something to be lived. When he saw his duty, he did it.

If we would think of all Christ's teachings, all glimpses of heavenly things, in this way, we would not live as so many do live —on life's low levels. Agrippa seems to have sneered at Paul's personal appeals as if the preacher would have made him a Christian like himself. But why not? Paul wanted every man to be a Christian. He was not ashamed to be a Christian himself, and he saw no reason why anybody, even Agrippa the king, should be ashamed to be what he himself was—" except these bonds."

They cast four anchors ovi of the stern, and wished for the day.—Acts 27:29.

IT is well always to carry anchors with us. We do not know when our only safety will be in casting anchor. It may be in a business matter. It may be in a friendship. It may be in the drift of our life away from Christ. It may be in a feeling of anger—if we do not check it, it will carry us to some rash act which we shall forever regret. In any time of uncertainty, we should throw out anchors and wait for light.

Though God is guiding us, the human part must never be neglected. Paul had said not a life should be lost, yet here he says that if the sailors fled, the ship could not be saved. The cargo, tackling, and furniture had to be thrown out in order to save the ship. It often happens that the only way we can save our lives is to sacrifice possessions.

One of the finest scenes in the Bible is that of Paul looking up to heaven and giving God thanks before he broke the bread on the storm-swept ship.

The barbarous people shewed us no little kindness.—Acts 28:2.

GOD'S promises never fail. Not one person was lost on the ship that bore Paul. They were saved for his sake. The men were not landed in a very easy and graceful way, but every one of them got ashore safely.

There is a great deal of human tenderness in this world, even among rude people and those who do not know Christ. Paul's company received "no common kindness" from the people on the island, though these were barbarians. Suffering touches hearts everywhere, making all kin. Nobleness of character reveals itself in all circumstances.

Through all the terrible voyage Paul's rare personality shone out. Here on the island we find him gathering sticks for the fire. One of Christ's promises to the disciples was that if they took up serpents they should not be hurt. This was fulfilled to Paul. If in doing our duty we are required to be among things that are dangerous, we may trust God and not be afraid. Nothing can harm us if we are doing God's will.

Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house, and received all that came in unto him.—Acre 28:30.

GOD'S purposes never miscarry. Paul was to go to Rome. The obstacles appeared insuperable. Even the elements seemed to be in league to prevent his reaching there. But through all hindrances the way was opened, and at last he entered the "Eternal City."

A prison life is not an ideal one for a missionary. But Paul's imprisonment did not limit his usefulness. Indeed, the fact that he was thus under the protection of Rome made him safe from persecution. That was God's way of providing for him. We are apt to think of shut-in days as lost time. One looking at it only superficially might say, "What a pity Paul had to lose those two whole years in prison!" But perhaps no other two years of Paul's life yielded better returns. From his prison he preached to those who came in. Then four of his epistles were written during that time, and they have been blessing the world now for nineteen hundred years.

Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit.—Mark 5:8.

JESUS met the fierce demons that no man had been able to control, and they yielded to Him without resistance. There is no power of evil which is not subject to His sway. This ought to be a comfort to us in our effort to save wicked men. We cannot change them, but Christ can. This is the faith that makes missionaries confident as they go among the heathen. Christ can save the worst of them, changing them into quiet, peaceable, and gentle Christians. Some people say they have such bad tempers that they cannot learn self-control. If they will only put their ungovernable tempers into the hands of Christ, He can tame them, as He tamed the demoniac.

The people of that neighborhood seem to have been angry because they lost their swine. They would rather have had the demon remain in the man than to have given their swine to have the man cured. We ought to be glad to see such a man freed from the power of evil, whatever the cost may be to us.

Jesus went with him.—Mark 5:24.

JESUS is always quick to respond to calls for help. He went at once with Jairus when his little daughter was dying. But He is never in a hurry. Although the child was at the point of death, when a poor woman in the throng touched the hem of His garment, with a heart-cry for healing in the touch, Jesus gave heed to her and gave her the blessing she sought. He even lingered to talk with her. By the time He had done this, it seemed that He had waited too long, for word came that the child was dead. But Jesus is just as able to restore the dead as He is to heal the sick. So His delay in reaching the ruler's house resulted in a greater work, when He raised the dead child to life, than if He had hastened and had kept her from dying.

We need never be afraid of Christ's delays—He never tarries too long. We may learn a lesson, too, on the beauty of wayside work. When we are going somewhere on an errand of business we may find opportunities of doing others kindnesses on the way.

There is nothing from without a man, that entering into him can defile him.—Mark 7:15.

TT is right for us to preserve cleanness of body. A filthy person is not a good Christian. But it is still more important that we have clean hearts. It is not enough to honor God with the lips—we must worship Him with our heart. A man may work in a coal mine or a foundry, and have blackened hands and face, and yet have a white heart, be pure, sincere, and true in the inward parts. On the other hand, one may have a body washed with water, and yet have a black heart. If we would please God we must have our hearts pure, even if our bodies are necessarily soiled because we have to work in dust or soot.

The glimpse Jesus shows of the interior of the human heart is not flattering. It is a nest filled with all manner of evil things. There is a good deal of talk in some quarters about social rank. A man who works on the streets or in certain occupations is rated away down. in the scale. But nothing really degrades a man but sin.

He could not be hid.—Mark 7:24.

JESUS cannot be hid. Wherever He is, people know it. There was a great burden on this Gentile mother's heart, the burden of a demoniac child. When she heard that the Healer was near her, she saw her opportunity and seized it. She believed that He could heal her child, and she was determined to get the blessing while He was within reach. It would be well if all mothers were as earnest in seeking spiritual blessing for their children as this mother was in seeking the casting out of the demon.

There are other impediments in speech and hearing besides those named in these verses. Some men cannot speak for God, nor can they hear God's words as He speaks to them. Many who profess to be followers of Christ seem never to be able to speak a word for Him. God gives them messages, but they remain silent, and souls are lost for want of a word which they might have spoken. We should seek the freeing for use of all our abilities, for power to its last particle is duty.

They bring a blind man unto Him.—Makk 8:22.

f 11HERE are different kinds of blindness.

People are led along the streets whose eyes see nothing of all the beautiful things in the natural world. Then there are people who have splendid eyes for the things of nature, but who are blind to spiritual things. This blindness is far worse than the other. Our prayer should be, as we go about through God's natural world, "Open my eyes to see also the lovely things of the spiritual world."

There is a story of a man who lived beside the sea and who was always speaking to his neighbors of the blue mountains beyond. They saw no mountains, and thought he was only a dreamer. But one day he sailed away to visit these mountains. The people laughed at his delusion, as they thought it, but by and by he came back, bringing rich treasures—gold, silver, and precious stones —which he had gathered. The things of the spiritual world are real, if only our eyes are opened to see them.

Why could not we cast him out?—Mahk 9:28.

that night while the Master was absent from them. When the father came with his boy, they could not cast out the demon. We are strong only when Christ is with us; we are weak when He is absent from us. Yet the disciples need not have failed in their effort. Jesus chided them for their lack of faith. The father also showed little faith, for in his request he said to Jesus, "If Thou canst do anything, have compassion on us, and help us." Jesus replied, " If thou canst! All things are possible to him that believeth."

The father's little faith stood in the way of the child's restoration. It must often be so, that lack of faith in parents keeps blessings away from their children. This is a startling thought, that our want of faith may keep blessings from others. Our prayer should be that of this father's: "I believe; help Thou my unbelief." A Christian should always be able to do impossible things, and only through faith can one do such things. Nothing is impossible if we believe.

baffled and defeated

Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness.—Phil. u. 29.

IT is pleasant to look up the little biographies of good men that we find imbedded in Paul's letters. There is so much that is deep and abstruse in some of his doctrinal discussions that we are apt to think of him as a sort of doctrinaire, without much of the genial, loving side of life in him. But when we study his letters we discover our mistake. He loved people, he needed friends, he always saw the best that was in them.

The little story of Epaphroditus that we have in this chapter is very interesting. Paul appreciated him. Nor did he forget his kindness—he had ministered to his needs. He was the messenger from the Philippian church, and had brought tokens of love to the apostle from his old friends. He had been taken sick, too, in Rome, but God had mercifully spared him. Now he is returning, and is to carry this letter. This kindly mention of Epaphroditus shows us how somewhere, if not in books, every kindness any of us does is written down.

/ press toward…the prize.—Philippians 3:14.

THE best ever lies before us if we are truly following Christ. Life is a mountain climb, and we never get to the summit in this world. Paul tells us that he has not yet reached the end of his race. But he is pressing on with inexhaustible energy and enthusiasm. He forgets the things which are behind.

Some people live altogether in their past. They tell you over and over of the great things they have done. Paul had done a great many brave and noble things, but he forgot them all, never talked about them, did not take time to record them—he was so eager to get on and to attain loftier heights, to do greater things, to win greater victories. Before him lay the goal with the prize of life, and to this he pressed continually.

It is a noble picture, this old apostle, at an age when many men are talking about "the dead line," still reaching forward and holding his eyes fixed on the real goal of his life far ahead. We ought not to lose the lesson.

For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.—Philippians 1:21.

TT is a splendid watchword for life that * Paul gives us here—" To me to live is Christ." A great many people could not fill out the sentence in that way, if they were to write honestly the purpose and motive of their life. Some would write, "To me to live is to make money," or "to have pleasure," or "to get fame," or "to gratify my appetites."

Every Christian should be able to make Paul's word his own—" To me to live is Christ." This means that the one purpose of our living is to honor Christ, to serve Him, to do His will, to love and obey Him, and to advance His kingdom. When one lives thus, one never questions the wisdom of any use of His life Christ may make. If He wants us to work, that is well. If He lays us aside to suffer, it is all right. If He sets aside our plans, we do not complain. Whether He leads us into sorrow or into joy, it matters not. Our life is His, and whatever pleases Him is right.

I thank my God upon every remembrance of you.—Philippians 1:3.

IT has been noted that the Philippian church never gave Paul any anxiety. Most of the churches founded by him lay heavily on his heart at some time or other. They had quarrels, and he had to be peacemaker. Or there were cases of wrongdoing, and he had to bear the burden. But the Philippian church was happy in itself. There were no wranglings, no dissensions. Paul got only joy and comfort from this church. Here he thanks God for it.

It is a great thing to live so as to be a comfort to our friends, to those who love us and live for us. It is a great thing for a church to be a joy to a pastor, never to put thorns into his pillow. It is a great thing for children to be a comfort to their parents. A father was just saying that not one of his children—now all married and settled in life—has ever caused him an anxious day or a sleepless night. Why should we not set for ourselves the aim always to be a comfort to our friends?

Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord.—Ephesians 6:10.

STRENGTH is commended in all the Bible as a duty. We are never exhorted to be weak. God is very patient with weakness, but He would have it brought to Him, and then it becomes strength.

Paul exhorts us here to be strong in the Lord. Life is not easy for us. All its best things have to be won in struggle. Only he that overcometh can receive the reward. It is a comfort to us to know that He in whose name we are to be strong is the Mighty One. He overcame the world, and thus is able to help us in all our battles. No one ever can be defeated who has Christ for his Friend and Helper.

Those who would enter the battle must put on the whole armor of God. They must not only fight, but must also stand in defense when assailed—and oftentimes it is harder to stand than to fight. If we would be strong we must be true and must keep right with God. Apart from Christ we can do nothing; in Christ we can do all things.

We are members of His body, of His flesh, and of His bones.—Ephesians 5:30.

NOTHING in this world means more to God than a beautiful home of love and prayer. Our chapter for today is given to suggestions as to the making of a home. Each member of the family has a share. There is the husband's part. He must love his wife and give himself for her, as Christ loved the Church and gave Himself for it. This is a high order of love. The wife has a part. She is to love her husband and live for her home. There is a part also for parents. They live for their children. They care for them. They train and teach them. They show them how to live. They are the revealers and interpreters of God to them. There is a part also in the home-making for the children. They are to obey their parents. People sometimes say facetiously that in these days the commandment runs, "Parents, obey your children." Where this is the interpretation, it is an unhappy reversal. The true Christian home is one in which love rules, and where each one fills his own place.

Now are ye light in Ihe Lord.—Ephesians 5:8.

7"E are able to walk in this world as

» ▼ children of light. Light stands for all that is beautiful, true, right, and good. Darkness is the emblem of all that is wrong, evil, unbeautiful, unholy.

As Christians we belong to the kingdom of light. We should so live that our lives shall always give out light. We are the light of the world. We are to make life brighter for others. We are to be a comfort to those who are in sorrow. We are to live so as to make the way plain to some who do not know where to go or what to do.

It would be very sad if any persons in darkness should look to us to learn how to live, and find our light not shining. If the light in a lighthouse were to go out some night, ships might be wrecked. If our light fails to shine even for a little while, we know not who might perish in the darkness. We are children of light, and dare never to have our lamp grow dim.

Ye have not so learned Christ.—Ephesians 4:20.

CHRISTIANS are not to live as other people do. Something far better is expected of them. They have come out from the world, and they are to show the world an example of heavenly life. They are no longer to "walk as the Gentiles also walk."

Those who have learned Christ should put away all the evil things of their former life, and be renewed in the spirit of their mind. They should put away falsehood and speak truth with their neighbors. If they get angry they should be sure not to hold hate in their hearts overnight. "Let not the sun go down upon your wrath." If they had ever stolen, they should steal no more, but should earn by honest labor whatever they get. They should keep special watch over their speech, never speaking any corrupt words. They should utter only words that will do good, imparting grace, making people happier and better. They should be careful never to do anything to grieve the Holy Spirit. They should keep their hearts free from all bitter thoughts and should be kind to everybody.

lie gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and fame, pastors and teachers.—Ephesians 4:11.

"f I ^0 each one his work." Some are aposties, some evangelists, some pastors, some teachers, some helpers only in small ways. But every Christian has something to do. If the smallest wheel in a watch fails to do its part, the watch stops. If the least Christian in a church neglects his duty, the whole church suffers. No one should ever say, "My little work will not be missed, I am so small and weak." No one is unimportant.

The purpose of the Church is the perfecting of the saints. We all begin as little children—only babies—but we are not to continue infants. It is a sad home in which the baby never grows, and at four or five years of age is a baby still. Yet there are Christians four or five years old who are no farther on than when they were born. The work of the Church is to stimulate the growth of each Christian and develop and train him so that he will attain "unto a full-grown man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ."

Unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think.—Ephesians 3:20.

IT is a comfort to us to know, when we pray, that God is able to do for us all that we ask. Paul tells us that He is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think. This is not saying that He will actually give us everything we ask for. We ask sometimes for very unfit things. We think they would supply our wants, or satisfy our heart-hungers, or give us the joy we lack. But really they would not. Perhaps they would do us harm. God will not give us these things, no matter how earnestly we ask for them.

We may plead to have some impending trouble or burden averted. God is able to do it—we are sure of this. But it may be that His love for us requires that we bear the burden or endure the sorrow. We may be sure, therefore, that there is nothing we may ask which God could not do. If He does not do what we wish, we know that it is better it should not be done.

1 will shew thee my faith by my works.—James 2:18.

IT is not enough to have an intellectual faith. There are people who will believe all the Bible, so far as assent to its teachings is concerned, and yet who are not a whit the better for it. The only faith that is of any avail is that which draws the life after it in obedience. We must show our faith in our works, and by our works. One may seem very sympathetic when need is before him, but if he does nothing to relieve the distress, his sympathy is only a pretense.

Abraham was the great prince of faith, and when he began to believe in the true God he left home and country and followed the divine bidding over a trackless way, without question. The son of promise had been given to him, but when he was commanded to offer this son on the altar, he did not question the command nor ask how it could be consistent with the promise, but instantly obeyed. If we believe God, we must surrender our lives to Him absolutely.

When they had this done, they inclosed a great multztvde of fishes.—Luke 5:6.

HRIST is able to help us in our busi

ness affairs as well as in our spiritual matters. The disciples had been fishing. They had toiled all night, and their nets were empty in the morning. Jesus told them that if they would push out farther and drop their nets in a certain place, they would find plenty of fish. They did as He asked them to do, and were rewarded.

Some people seem never to learn that they can have God's guidance in their secular affairs. A young woman was trying to find something to do. A friend, after advising her, asked her if she had taken the matter to God. "Why, you would not pray about a matter of this kind, would you?" That is precisely what we should do. God is interested in everything in our lives, in our smallest daily affairs, as well as in our largest spiritual interests. Jesus tells us that the very hairs of our heads are all numbered. This means that nothing in our lives is too small for God's notice.

They went upon the housetop, and let him down through the tiling.—Luke 5:19.

T 10:7E should be earnest in helping others.

» T We have a splendid example in the story of the four men who brought their neighbor to Jesus. This neighbor was a paralytic. He never could have got into the presence of the Healer without their aid. These men carried him to where Jesus was that day. They found such a crowd about the door that they could not enter. But that did not discourage them. They were determined to have their friend healed, and when they could not get in they carried him to the roof and, opening a way, let him down into the very presence of Jesus.

If we were as eager to do others good, we would not be easily disheartened in our efforts. The truth is, we try languidly to help our neighbors, and nothing comes of our efforts. If we really love people, we will stop at no cost in trying to do them good. The good Samaritan is another example of this. He is Christ's own illustration of what it means to love our neighbor as ourselves.

Of them He chose twelve, whom also He named apostles. —Luke 6:13.

TESUS was a friend to everybody. Yet

He chose twelve men whom He took into very close companionship. These men made up His personal family. He received from them the blessings of friendship, which all men need in their busy life. The chief reason why He chose the twelve, however, was that He might train them, so that when He was gone they could carry on His work. He still went about speaking the words of life to the multitudes, but He gave the most of His time and thought to those He had chosen. They were to be His witnesses, and must see His life and hear His words, in order that they might be capable witnesses.

We should note that Jesus spent the whole night in prayer before choosing his friends. In nothing do we need more to pray than when we are choosing our friends and companions. If there was more prayer for wisdom and guidance in the forming of friendships, there would be less regret and fewer heart-burnings afterwards.

He lifted up Hie eyes on His disciples, and said.—Luke

HRIST came into the world to set up

the kingdom of heaven here. The laws of this kingdom are the laws of heaven. The Beatitudes contain the substance of these laws. We should study these ideals of character, and then seek to get them into our own lives.

To be poor in spirit is to be lowly, to forget self and think of others. Posing as humble will not do—humility must be real. Hunger of spirit is dissatisfaction with present attainment and longing for something better. Sorrow brings comfort, and comfort is one of God's best gifts. It is worth while to have sorrow that we may receive the comfort. The hate of men does not seem desirable, and it is only when it is for the sake of Christ that it brings blessing. Loving enemies is not an easy lesson to learn, but it is the Christlike way. If we are to be like our Master we must learn to love as He loves. The important thing in all this teaching is to get the lessons down out of heaven into our common daily life.

6:20.

When the Lord saw her, He had compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep not.—Luke 7:13.

WHEN Jesus was here He touched every phase of the world's need. The Roman soldier found Him able to heal his slave without even going to the house. The widow, following her son to the grave, does not seem even to have known of Jesus before. His meeting with the funeral procession seems to have been accidental. We know, however, that it was not accidental on the part of the Master. He knew of the woman's sorrow, though He was far away. His heart went out to her in sympathy because she was a widow, and because he whom she was carrying to the grave was her only son. Then He directed His path so that He would meet the sorrowful procession before it reached the burying-place. There was no funeral that day, and the procession was changed to one of joy.

So Christ does always. Even when we do not call upon Him for comfort, He meets us with His blessing. Christ has not left the earth—He is still here.

Her gins, which are many, are forgiven.—Luke 7:47.

THE love of Christ has power to change the worst sinner into the whitest saint. The woman we see wetting the feet of Jesus with her tears, and anointing them with ointment, was a poor outcast a little while ago. One writer represents her as going along the street that day in her gay attire, and getting a glimpse of Jesus through the window of the house where He was being entertained by the Pharisee. That look shriveled her to nothingness; her old self was dead and gone forever. The same instant a new woman sprang up in her, in place of the old, and a moment later she was at the feet of her Savior. Her tears told of her penitence. Her ointment, costly and fragrant, told of honor, love, and gratitude. It represented her best—all she had she gave to Him who had rescued her. It was what was left of the old life, and she gave it to her new Master.

We all need the blessing which this woman got, and we can get it if we come with penitence to Christ's feet.

An inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you.—1 Peter 1:4.

T I THE children of God are heirs to a glori

.■. ous inheritance. It is not an earthly inheritance, but a heavenly. It is not given to them in full possession in this world, but is reserved for them in heaven. They could not receive it here—they have a pilgrimage to make to get to it. But while the inheritance is securely kept for them in heaven, they have the promise of guardianship on the way. They are kept by the power of God through faith.

All our life in this world is intended to prepare us for receiving our inheritance. If we have troubles, we need not be afraid —we may rejoice in them all. If we have dangers, we need not be dismayed—we have the promise of protection. Some day we shall see Christ, whom now we love but cannot see. Heaven is sure for all who are Faithful in this world. If we do God's will and do not lose faith, we shall be kept in safety through this world and brought at last home to our inheritance.

As strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts.— 1 Peter 2:11.

THE assurance of the heavenly home awaiting us should make us want to live worthily in this world. There are things we should promptly put out of our lives if we are pilgrims on our way to our promised land. We should cleanse our lives of all hypocrisies, all that is not sincere and true. Envies are not fit feelings for a Christian to cherish on his way to heaven, for he cannot take them through the gate.

"Evil speaking" is also set down among the things that we should put out of our lives. There is a good deal of evil speaking among people who want to pass as followers of Christ. One hears it in almost every circle —criticism of absent ones, uncharitable words about them, sometimes bits of gossip that are not beautiful. We ought to train ourselves to do here the things we shall continue to do when we get home. It is certain that there will be no evil speaking there. We would better let this kind of speech drop altogether out of our lives, and speak only words of love.

Likewise, ye wives.…Likewise, ye husbands.—1 Peter 3:1, 7.

THE religion of Christ has its definite teachings for everybody. In this chapter wives and husbands come in for lessons of their own. The Christian wife should want to win her own husband for Christ. In this she can do best, not by perpetual nagging, but by making her own life so attractive, that her husband will be convinced of the reality and the power of the Christ that is in her.

It is right for the wife to dress beautifully, but the adorning that will give her the widest influence as a winner of souls is not that of the body—the braiding of. the hair, the wearing of jewels, or the putting on of showy clothes. A woman's real adornment is not of the body, but of the life and character; as Peter puts it, "the incorruptible apparel of a meek and quiet spirit."

There is a word here also for husbands. They are to be gentle, patient, kind, thoughtful, using their strength for the comfort and help of their wives. In this lesson lies one of the secrets of a happy wedded life.

Above all things have fervent charity among yourselves.— 1 Peter jv. 8.

WE call John the Apostle of Love^ but the other New Testament writers give equal emphasis to the duty of Christian love. The most wonderful chapter ever written in order to extol love is by Paul—the matchless thirteenth of First Corinthians. Then Peter also exhorts that "above all things," that is, even above prayer, we are to be fervent in our love among ourselves, for love covereth a multitude of sins. That is, love overlooks even a multitude of faults and flecks and sins in others.

This lesson cannot be repeated too often. We do not naturally love people—it is something we have to learn to do. If Paul's definition is to be regarded as the standard, most of us have a good deal yet to learn about loving before we reach it. Peter also makes the lesson strong, exhorting us to be fervent—that is, warm, tender, affectionate in our loving of each other. The only way to get such Christian love into our lives is to let Christ's own love into our hearts.

Likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder.— 1 Peter 5:5.

PERHAPS there is special need for this counsel in these days. Nothing is more beautiful than to see young persons attentive and respectful to the old. It may not be easy to take slow steps with an infirm aged person, but the time lost in the journey is well spent.

Max O'Rell somewhere has a word about the attention of a daughter to her father. He speaks of it as one of the most beautiful things one sees, and perhaps as rare as beautiful. Mothers get a great deal more attention from their children than fathers do. That is well—they deserve it; but fathers, too, hunger for love and for kindness from their children, and it is well worth while for a bright girl or a happy boy to give a tired father a measure of care and attention now and then.

Humility is the keynote of this chapter. The young are exhorted to be subject to the elder. We are all exhorted to gird ourselves with humility; then we are to humble ourselves under the mighty hand of God.

Add to your faith virtue.—2 Peter 1:5.

UR lesson presents us with a splendid

sum in addition. The graces are to be added, one to another. Faith comes first; but faith cannot stand alone, so we add to our faith virtue—that is, manliness, with all the noble qualities that apply to manliness. Next we are to add knowledge—knowledge, of course, of the true kind, wisdom for life, spiritual knowledge, knowledge of God and of God's will. Self-control comes next—this is the key of all noble life. No matter how strong we are, or how much we know, if we have not self-control, something is wanting. He that can rule himself is strong, while he that lacks selfmastery, no matter what other gifts he may have, is pitiably weak. Self-control produces another element—patience, patience in suffering. Another quality to be added to patience is Godliness — Godlikeness. Then comes brotherly kindness — affectionateness to those among whom we mingle. Last of all—love, the crowning gift and blessing. To have these elements of character is to be ready for life.

Many shall follow their pernicious ways.—2 Peter 2:2.

THIS chapter is full of painful pictures. Life has its unsoothing side. Sin is in the world, and wherever there is sin there will be sorrow. But in the midst of this chapter of warnings is one sentence which brings great comfort to those who are exposed to dangers and sufferings: "The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation." No matter amid what enmities and perils, we have to live we need not be afraid. The wise man says, "The name of the Lord is a strong tower: the righteous runneth into it, and is safe." The Psalms tell us that under the shadow of God's wings we may take refuge, that the Lord is our keeper, and that He who keepeth us never sleeps.

Some people think they cannot be good in the place they live because of the evil about them, but Christ knows how to deliver the godly out of temptation wherever duty calls them to go. We may never choose to live amid dangers, but if our duty calls us into such places, we may be sure of protection.

I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance.—2 Peter 3:1.

IT is well that our minds shall be often stirred up and kept in remembrance of things we ought not to forget. Jesus recognized this when He gave the Lord's Supper. We cannot conceive how much the Communion has done through the Christian centuries to keep the name of Christ precious in this world of care and sin.

Some one visiting the studio of an artist observed some highly colored stones lying on his table. When asked why he had these stones always before him, the artist said it was to keep his eye up to tone. For the same reason we need to keep before us always high ideals of life. Otherwise our minds are apt to drift away from the things that are best. Some one says that the little sentence, "That will do," has done more harm than any other sentence in the English language. Being satisfied with the thing that merely "will do" is fatal to our doing the best. It is well, therefore, to have our pure minds continually stirred up by way of remembrance, "lest we forget."

Count it all joy when ye fail into divers temptations.— James 1:2.

NOT all of us understand the meaning and purpose of temptation. We think of it as an effort of Satan to destroy us. That is what Satan intends, but that is not God's intention concerning temptation. Jesus was not only tempted, but He was led, driven, by the Holy Spirit to His temptation. He could not be our Savior until He was tempted—that is, tried and proved. So we read here, "Blessed is the man that endureth temptation." The beatitude is not for him who has not been tempted, but for him who. has met temptation and has been victorious.

It certainly seems a strange thing to read that we should count it all joy when we fall into manifold temptations. We regret to see our friends come under sore temptation or to have to be tempted ourselves; but we learn here that we may even count it joy to have the experience. Temptation is therefore an opportunity. Blessings lie beyond it which cannot reach in any other way but through the experience of temptation. r ^ i

The tongue can no man tame.—James 3:8.

THE tongue is a troublesome member. It is a very important member, however. With it we can do great good. Our words, if they are true and loving, carry blessings wherever they are heard. But the tongue is hard to control. When we have really got our tongue under control we are almost perfect. One who can govern his speech can govern every other part of his life. A small bit keeps a spirited horse in check; a little rudder turns a great ship in its course; so the tongue, though so small a member, controls the whole life. The tongue is harder to tame than wild beasts. There has been but one Man who never spoke foolishly, rashly, bitterly. Jesus never did. His words were all clean, sweet, helpful, and inspiring.

We ought to set ourselves the task of mastering our tongues, for then we can do untold good with them. Only Christ can help us to do it. He mastered everything—demons, diseases, winds, waves, death itself, and He can help us to master the most unruly tongue.

Be ye also patient.—James 5:8.

THE lesson of patience is not easy to learn, yet it is important that we should learn it. Impatience is the secret of many sad failures. Impatience is letting go when only by holding on can we succeed. A man spent a fortune in drilling for oil. At last he got discouraged and sold his well for a trifle. The new owner started the drill, and in two hours found a great flow of oil. If the first man's patience had held out those two hours, he would have found success.

Many people miss answers to their prayers by giving up a little too soon. Our lesson teaches us to be patient in waiting for blessing in our work. The farmer sows his seed and waits for the harvest to come. Months pass, but his confidence in the laws of nature makes him patient, and at last he reaps his reward. We have the promise of God for blessing upon those who will be Faithful. We should never doubt, whatever the delays may be. Only those who are patient can get the blessing.

He shall be great in the sight of the Lord.—Luke 1:15.

GEORGE MACDONALD says, "To have been thought about by God, born in God's thought, and then made by God, is the dearest, grandest, most precious thought in all thinking." John the Baptist was thought about before he was born. His life was a plan of God. What he was to do was marked out for him before his birth. In another Gospel we read of him, "There was a man sent from God, whose name was John."

We are not to suppose either that there was anything peculiar about John in this regard. His life was no more planned for beforehand than yours or mine. Every one's life is a plan of God. We do not come into this life on any haphazard chance of a career. Every one who comes is sent from God. Every one was made for something, some work of His very own, which no other one can do, with a place to fill and a definite task to perform. The most beautiful and complete life, therefore, is one that realizes God's purposes for it.

Hail, thou that art highly favored:…Blessed art thou among women.—Luke 1:28.

MOTHERHOOD is always sacred. To be the mother of any child is a holy privilege for a woman. But to be the mother of Jesus Christ, the world's Messiah, was the highest honor ever granted to any woman. Mary was blessed among women. When a great man is wanted for some place of responsibility, God first chooses a noble woman to be his mother, and puts into her heart and life the gifts that are necessary to fit her for her sacred task. We often hear it said of a good or great man that he had a good mother.

The woman who was chosen from among all women to be the mother of Jesus must have been divinely gifted for her mission. No wonder the angel said to her, "Hail, thou that art highly favored, the Lord is with thee." Mary's words when she was told that she was to be the mother of the Messiah are very beautiful: "Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word." She was awed by the announcement, and accepted it humbly.

That we should be saved from our enemies.—Luke 1:71.

THE salvation which Christ came to make for the world is perfect. First it delivers us out of the hand of our enemies. We are under condemnation, and it sets us free. We are in death's prison, and this salvation liberates us.

But deliverance from condemnation and death is not all of Christian hope. We are set free that we may serve our new Master. Jesus says, "Take My yoke upon you." We are made free from other masters by coming under the rule of the Divine Master. We are saved to serve. Our service, however, is not to be selfish, nor servile, nor compulsory, but glad, joyous, voluntary, under the constraint of love. We are to serve Him by obedience—" in holiness and righteousness." There is no other way of receiving the divine salvation but by the acceptance of Christ's mastership, which implies obedience in all holy things and in all holy ways. No one willingly living a sinful life can claim to have received Christ.

/ bring you good tidings of great joy.—Luke 2:10.

IT was a wonderful night in which Jesus was born. The outward conditions were not remarkable. No great display was made. No quieter event took place anywhere in the world, that night, than the birth of the Son of God at Bethlehem. The only revealing of glory was what the shepherds saw as they kept their watch over their flocks, when an angel came and told them of the wonderful occurrence, and when, a little later, a host of angels came and sang the first Christmas song. The shepherds came quickly into the town to search for the newborn Savior, but they found nothing but plainness and poverty. In a manger, on a bundle of hay, they found the child, wrapped in swaddling clothes, sleeping its first sleep of peace.

Thus quietly began the kingdom of heaven in this world. It is ever so—the greatest events make the least noise. The kingdom of God always comes quietly. It begins in us, perhaps, in a gentle wish, which by and by becomes a beautiful life.

Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man.—Luke 2:52.

THE little that is told us of the first thirty years of the life of Jesus is very suggestive. We have only a few glimpses, but they are full of meaning. The record of the first twelve years is all comprised in one sentence: "The Child grew, and waxed strong, filled with wisdom: and the grace of God was upon Him." He grew as other children grow. There was nothing precocious about Him.

At twelve years of age He went to His first Passover. Then the record of the following eighteen years is told in another single sentence: "Jesus advanced in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man." We know that He was subject to His parents, thus teaching a great lesson which every child ought to learn. We know that He, was a carpenter. People often wonder that He wrought no miracles in those years; but miracles are not the only revealings of divineness. The divinest thing in life is to live sweetly, patiently, unselfishly, obediently, in plain and holy ways.

Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit.—Luke 4:14.

ONE reason that Jesus was tempted was that He might know by experience what temptation means to His followers. In one of the galleries of Europe there is a picture of an angel standing near the empty cross, after Jesus had been buried, touching with his fingers the sharp points of the thorns in the crown of thorns. The artist's thought is that the angel had looked on the sufferings of Christ with wonder. He could not understand them. The angels never have suffered, and hence there is nothing in the angel nature or experience to interpret suffering. This angel in the picture is pressing his fingers upon the sharp thorn-points, trying to discover what pain is.

It was necessary that Jesus should suffer Himself, that He might understand our sufferings. He was tempted in all points that He might sympathize with us in our temptations. Nothing means more to us in the great struggles of our lives than to remember that Christ has felt what we are feeling, and sympathizes with us.

They in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with wrath.—Luke 4:28.

SOME people are never willing to see the good there is in others, nor to give them the honor to which they are entitled. This was the trouble with the people of Nazareth. Jesus had grown up among them. In a village all one's life is open to everybody. Some boys and young men commit indiscretions in their early years, which are remembered against them when they are older. But there was nothing in the young days of Jesus which could be recalled to shame Him. He had lived so beautifully, so sweetly, so lovingly, that no one could say anything against Him. By and by He came back to visit His old neighbors. Everybody was talking about Him, and the fame of His life and work had been heard in His old town. But His former neighbors would not see in Him the things others saw in Him. They would not believe that He was the Messiah.

Many people show the same spirit in these days. They refuse to see anything beautiful or good in others.

The Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us.—John 1:14.

THE most wonderful event in the history of the world was the coming of God in human flesh to dwell among men. The "Word" was in the beginning, that is, from eternity. Then in time the Word became flesh and lived among us. That is what took place that quiet night at Bethlehem when Jesus was born.

Wonderful was the life that dwelt for three and thirty years on earth. Jesus Himself interpreted it when He said, "He that hath seen Me hath seen the Father." As we read the beautiful story of the life of Jesus and see His gentleness, His patience, His unselfishness, His abounding kindness, we are looking at God revealed in simple, human ways. In no other way could we ever have learned the character of the invisible God. In the incarnation He came down and lived among us, and now we know how easy it is to get to God, how loving and patient and merciful He is, and how ready He is to help us. The Christ of the Gospels is the God with whom we have to do.

The two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus.—John 1:37.

THE Church of Christ had a very small beginning. Two young men went home with Jesus one day and learned that He was the Messiah. One of these two men was Andrew. In the eagerness of his joy he sought his own brother, and told him that he had found the Messiah. Then we have this little note. "He brought him to Jesus." It took only a few moments, but tremendous results followed.

This brother whom he brought was the Peter of the New Testament. We do not know when we bring anyone to Christ what we are doing, what this person may do for the world. Andrew seems not to have been a very great man himself, and not to have done a vast amount of work as an apostle. But if he never did anything but bring his fisherman brother to Christ, that was worth living for. To bring one man to the Savior and to start him on a career as a Christian is a service cf incalculable value. It is the starting of a life on a career of blessing for the world.

This beginning of miracles did Jesus,…and manifested forth His glory.—John 2:11.

IT is said that in doing this beginning of His signs, Jesus "manifested" His glory. The glory was there before, the power to do great things, but not till now was it revealed, manifested, put forth. It is said that He "manifested His glory." Glory means power, brightness. This glory seems here to have been only simple kindness. A host, in the midst of his wedding feast, discovered that the wine had run out. We can imagine his dismay and his embarrassment. How could he explain it to his guests? No man wants to seem mean on the occasion of his wedding. Then Jesus came to His friend's relief and used His " glory," His divine power, to change the water into wine.

The glory of Christ was shown as truly in the smallest words of comfort, in taking little children in His arms and blessing them, as it was in His raising the widow's son or Lazarus. So we show just as much love in doing the commonest kindness as if we were to do some great thing.

The same came to Jesus by night.—John 3:2.

NICODEMUS has been blamed for coming to Jesus at night, but there is no ground for the blame. It would be the best time for a quiet talk with Jesus. Jesus Himself did not blame Nicodemus for coming by night. Indeed he did well to come at all. A good many men do not think that Jesus can do anything for them or that they need Him in any way. Nicodemus set a splendid example which all prominent men might follow.

It is interesting to note the things that Jesus talked about with His distinguished visitor. One was the new birth. We can be in the kingdom of heaven only by having a great change wrought in us. Heaven must first come down to us, or we never can get into heaven. The way to have this change take place in us is to receive Christ as our Savior, and then the Spirit will enter into our heart and live there. Nicodemus was himself born again, for at the last, when Jesus was dead, he came with Joseph to honor Him before all the world.

He must increase, but I must decrease.—John 3:30.

BEFORE Jesus came John had great popularity. After Jesus began to preach, the throngs fell off from John and turned to Jesus. John's disciples were vexed by this. They thought Jesus was not dealing gratefully with John, in drawing the people from him. John's answer was very noble. "I am not the Christ,…I am sent before Him." He said further that he was not the bridegroom, but only His friend.

It was not easy for John to see the people leave him and go after Jesus. It is never easy, when one has been first, to take a second place and to keep on working as faithfully and as sweetly as ever. Some persons who have been chairmen of committees, or presidents of societies, and have worked nobly in these positions, are never of any use after that—they cannot take the lower place after being in the higher. John teaches us to be just as sweet, Faithful, and earnest, when we are no longer in the prominent place as when filling places of honor.

// thou knewesl the gi]t of God.—John 4:10.

THE Samaritan woman did not dream of the power to help and to bless there was in the lowly peasant that sat on the well-curb that day. If she had known, there was nothing she could not have received from His hands. A little later she learned who it was, and did receive much.

We are missing life's best things continually because we are not aware of the glory that is ever close to us. Mrs. Browning tells us that every common bush is aflame with God, and that while those who see take off their shoes, the rest sit round and eat blackberries. "The days come to us," says Emerson, "in endless file, but to each of us they offer gifts: bread, kingdoms, stars, and sky that holds them all." But many of us see not these glorious gifts in the common days, and take only a few herbs and apples, missing the rare things we might have chosen. If we only knew how near Christ is to us continually, we would not go on unblessed as we do.

My meat is to do the will of Him that sent Mc.—John

HE life finds its true food in doing the

•*. will of God. Jesus taught the same truth in His answer when tempted to make stones into bread. He said, "Man shall not live by bread alone." The disciples had left Him hungry now by the well. They come back and find Him not needing food, and He explained it by saying, "My meat is to do the will of Him that sent Me." He had been feeding a starving soul, and that had fed His own hunger.

The secret of a well-nourished spiritual life is, obedience and service. Sin never satisfies, for it is disobedience. Selfishness never satisfies, for only he who loves lives, and love seeks not its own, but always the other man. If we do the will of God we shall find food for our souls in every obedience and every sacrifice of love. If we would learn the secret of living without weariness, we must learn to do the will of God. This is the hidden manna which nourishes all who eat of it.

4:34.

Speak thou the things which become sound doctrine.—Titus 2:1.

THE gospel of Christ has its special word for each person. It does not have the same message for every one. There is something here for old men. They have passed through many experiences, and they ought to have learned wisdom; they should be temperate, grave, sober-minded, with chastened spirit, good judgment, and be patient with all. There is a word here for old women—they should be reverent, charitable, careful in speech, helpful to neighbors and friends. There is a duty for younger women, too—they should be good wives, good mothers, good home-makers, living so worthily that they will be an honor to Christ. Christian young men, also, have a place all their own to fill. They should discard the follies of the world and be thoughtful, sober-minded, full of good works, like their Master. There is a Christian duty also for servants and employees, who are to be Faithful, even if their masters are not kind, in all things adorning the manner of Christ.

The grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men.—Trrus 2:11.

/CHRISTIAN duty touches all relations

of life. It does not have to do only with communions and prayer-meetings. It includes all our actions. It tells us the kind of citizens we ought to be, how we should treat rulers. It tells us how we should live with people, that we should not speak evil of any one, that we should not be contentious, but be gentle, showing meekness and patience even toward those who seem not easy to get along with. Once we were not Christians, and did not know the law of love, but lived in malice and envy, hateful and hating others. But now the kindness of God and His love have touched our lives, and we are to put away the things of our old life.

A gardener found a lump of fragrant clay, and when he asked, "Whence thy fragrance?" the answer was, "One laid me on a rose." When the love of God touches our lives we ought to absorb its spirit, its sweetness. Christian duty teaches us to live the life of Christ amid the world's evil.

The grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant.—1 Timothy 1:14.

SOME one has said that to him the greatest wonder in the story of divine grace was that he himself had been saved. Paul seems to have felt the same wonder regarding himself. He had been a blasphemer, a persecutor; yet Christ had chosen him for His service. In this the grace of Christ abounded exceedingly.

Note also what the apostle says as to the reason why he had been thus saved: "Howbeit for this cause I obtained mercy, that in me as chief—chief of sinners—might Jesus Christ shew forth all His longsuffering, for an ensample of them that should thereafter believe on Him." That is, the reason Paul was forgiven and made a preacher was that no other sinner need ever despair. If he could be forgiven, after all he had done against Christ, anybody could be forgiven. Christ saved the chief sinner that lesser sinners ever after might have confidence as they sought mercy. But every one of us may also wonder why we are saved, for not one of us is worthy.

That thou mayest knmv how thou oughtcst to behave thyself in the house of God.—1 Timothy 3:15.

TT is important that those who occupy *. official positions in the Church shall be worthy, and that they fittingly "behave themselves in the house of God." The minister should be without reproach. His name should be like ointment poured forth. He should be "temperate," using the word in its broader sense; he should have his temper, his speech, his feelings, his appetites, under complete mastery. He should be soberminded—-not long-faced, but serious, reverent. He should be apt to teach; gentle, not contentious. He should be well spoken of among those who are outside.

Other church officers are under scarcely less holy sanctions. Deacons must be grave, not double-tongued, not greedy for money, holding faith in a pure conscience, and living a blameless life. Holiness becometh God's house, and all who are active in its affairs should be reverent, sincere, and worthy examples to all who look to them as their leaders. Unfit behavior in official church members hurts Christ's cause.

Neglect not the gift that is in thee.—1 Timothy 4:14.

WE should make the best possible use of our gifts and talents. Timothy was exhorted not to neglect the gift that was in him, referring to his ordination to the ministry. When a man is thus set apart his holy office is a gift. Then there are gifts which are part of one's natural endowment or come through education and experience. Whatever gifts of any kind we possess, we should use, not neglecting them.

In another place Paul exhorts Timothy to stir up the gift of God that was in him. The words suggest a fire banked up, not burning brightly, needing to be stirred up. Timothy was not living at his best, was not making the most of his life.

There are many Christian people who are good, but not nearly so good as they might be. They are useful, doing good service, but they are capable of doing a great deal more. The fires of their love, their earnestness, their enthusiasm, need stirring up. No gift or capacity of ours should be neglected or buried.

Rebuke not an elder, but intreat him as a father.—1 Timothy 5:1.

IT takes a great deal of tact to tell others of their faults so that good will come from the telling. Not many people accept reproof or criticism kindly. Many resent any and every suggestion of fault or blame. One would think that children would be glad to have their parents tell them of their mistakes, but even children are too often vexed by words of reproof, however gently given.

If only we could see how we might be benefited by learning of our faults, we should rejoice when anyone points out something in us that is unbeautiful. But most of us are proud, and it hurts us for any person to tell us of anything in us that is a blemish. So it requires all the wisdom and delicacy of touch we can command to administer reproof. Some people just blurt it out, without any attempt to do it gently. If we have to give reproof, we would better do it in as kindly a way as possible. Paul suggested that an elder should not be rebuked but exhorted, and that gently.

Godliness with contentment is great gain.—1 Timothy 6:6.

ONTENTMENT does not mean satis

never can be satisfied. Being contented does not mean that a person enjoys discomforts, hardships, narrow circumstances, sufferings. That would be unnatural. To be contented is to accept one's condition and circumstances, whatever they may be for the time, without complaining or fretting, making the best of them.

In another place Paul speaks about his own experience in attaining this grace. He says, "I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, therein to be content." He had learned to be independent of conditions. He had in his own heart the resources for quiet and peace, so that in the barest circumstances he did not fret. It is interesting to notice that Paul says he had learned to be content. This suggests that it did not come to him naturally, but was something he had to learn. He intimates to Timothy that he who is contented is rich, though he have only godliness. Discontent is poverty, though a man have millions.

faction—with our great natures we

The unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice.—2 Timothy 1:5.

THERE is something in genealogy, after all. It is a fine thing for a young man to have had a good mother and a godly grandmother. This does not mean that a man is necessarily good because of the faith that dwelt in his grandmother and his mother. Goodness cannot be passed down like an estate. Some very bad men have had most pious ancestry. At the same time, it is fitting when in successive generations piety is found. A young man with worthy ancestors owes it to them to be worthy. He should keep unspotted the white name he receives. We are responsible for the carrying on of the work which they have begun.

Paul was persuaded that the faith of his grandmother and mother was also in Timothy. It should always be so with young people with Christian parents. Those who have a noble inheritance, of memories, influences and teachings, should be better than those who have not had these blessings.

Be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus.—2 Timothy 2:1. /~\NE of the secrets of a true life is

readiness to endure. Anybody can begin well—it is he who continues to the end who wins success. We are to be soldiers of Christ; soldiers must know how to endure. Softness and luxury belong not to a true life. Some mothers would keep their boys out of all hardness, away from all struggle, but that is not to make men of them. Imagine a soldier in training, who is kept out of battles, lest he might be hurt! Paul spoke of himself as one who contended in the games. He wished to reach heaven, but he knew that heaven had to be won on the battle-field of life. "If we endure, we shall also reign with Him."

In the letters to the seven churches, in Revelation, all the blessings offered to the Faithful lie beyond lines of battle, and the only way to reach them is by entering the struggle and enduring till we receive the crown. Nothing worthy can be reached by him who has not learned to endure.

From. a child thou hast known the Holy Scriptures.—2 Timothy 3:15.

IT is a great thing to be brought up on the Holy Scriptures. No other book can do for a life what the Bible can do. It is able to make one wise in the truest way— with a wisdom that saves one by bringing him into fellowship with Jesus Christ.

The Word of God has in it an efficacy no other book in the world has. It is profitable for teaching — instructing in holy things, the things of God and eternal life. It is profitable for reproof, convicting us of sin and declaring God's judgment against evil. It is profitable for correction, not only showing us our faults, but leading us away from them, freeing our lives from errors and making straight what was crooked. It is profitable for instruction in righteousness, telling us how God would have us live, what qualities of character He would have us attain. One who is trained under the tuition of the Scriptures will come to a complete man, furnished for usefulness and prepared for doing whatever good work he may be called to do.

I am now ready to be offered.—2 Timothy 4:6.

IN this chapter we have the last words of Paul sent from his dungeon. But they are not the words of a defeated man; rather, they tell of victory and triumph.

He was lonely. He was suffering from the chill of his dungeon, and wanted his cloak. He tells of his standing before the emperor, when all forsook him, and no one took his part. Yet he was not alone in that trying hour, for the Lord stood by him and strengthened him. He knew he would soon meet death, but he knew where he was going —" The Lord will deliver me from every evil work, and will save me unto His heavenly kingdom." He spoke of his violent death as an oblation to God and as a departure. He spoke of his life under three figures—a fight, a course, a trust. He looked backward with consciousness of approval— he had fought well in the battle; he had run his course to the goal; he had been Faithful to the trust committed to him. He looked forward with joy and confidence; there was a crown waiting for him.

Thy wUl be done in earth, as it is in heaven.—Matthew 6:10.

SOME people quote this petition always as if it meant only submission to some painful providence. They suppose it refers only to losing friends or money, or to adversity or calamity. But it is for the doing of God's will, not the suffering of it, that we here pray. It is easier, however, to make prayers like this for other people than for ourselves. We all think others ought to do God's will, and we do not find it a difficult prayer to make that they may do so. If, however, we offer this prayer sincerely, it is for ourselves, that we may do God's will. We can pray it, therefore, only when we are ready for implicit, unquestioning obedience. Or it may mean the giving up of some sweet joy, the losing of some precious friend, the sacrifice of some dear presence, the going in some way of thorns and tears.

We should learn always to make the prayer and then to hold our life close to the divine will, never rebelling or murmuring, but sweetly doing or bearing what God gives us to do or bear.

The Lord appointed other seventy also, and sent them two and two.—Luke 10:1.

HRIST has a great business in hand.

He wants the gospel carried to every home in the world. He needs human messengers for this work. No doubt angels would be glad to go on such errands, but 'angels would not do. Only those who have been saved by Christ can tell others of Christ. He would send us out, and we should be ready to respond, " Here am I," when we hear His call.

To go in Christ's name is to represent Him. We need to have that love in our hearts that Jesus had when He went among the people. Then when Christ sends us, He will care for us and help us in giving our message. If we do not go where Christ wants us to go, people will miss the blessing. Some one said to a boy, " If God really loves you, why does He not tell somebody to give you a pair of shoes, or coal to keep you warm this cold weather?" The boy said, " I guess He does tell somebody, but somebody forgets." We need to be ever quick to go on our Master's errands, "Lest we forget!" Who is my neighbor?—Luke 10:29.

LOVE to our neighbor seems at first an easy lesson to learn. But when we begin to study it, it grows harder. There is more of the lesson than we thought. We like to pick our neighbors, and we are sure to choose people who are congenial.

How to love our neighbor is taught in the parable. It is easy to have a sort of universal love—a love for everybody, a love we can exercise in our quiet home, looking at people in the distance, but not coming near to anyone. It is not just the same, however, when we go down among the people, and find our neighbor in some disagreeable person we cannot like, but waiting for our help, or in some enemy in need. The Good Samaritan found his neighbor in a hated Jew bleeding by the wayside. He had to get down in the dust and stanch his wounds, and then carry the man to an inn and pay the bills. It often costs a great deal to love a neighbor. The lesson is written out in full at the close: "Go, and do thou likewise."

When ye pray, say, Our Fatlier which art in heaven.— Luke 11:12.

IT is a great thing to know that we really may pray. The name Father is assurance enough. Certainly if God is our Father He will hear, and love to hear, His children's cries.

The Lord's Prayer teaches us that we are not to put our own needs first. Count how many petitions there are before we get to "daily bread." Most of us put our own wants first and then God's name, kingdom, and will far down the list.

We must also be earnest in praying. The man wanting bread got it, not because it was his friend's door at which he was, but because he would not stop knocking. He knew there was bread in that house, and he was bound to get it. So our Master would have us stay at our Father's door, asking, seeking, knocking. The blessings we need are in His hands, and we can get them if we continue in our importunity. We are sure of our Father's love, too—that He wants to give us what we need, that He will never offer us anything but the best. I wish the finger of God cast out devils.—Luke 11:20.

WE need to have One stronger than the strongest to guard us against dan.ger. There are robbers who go about seeking to take from us the treasures of our lives. It will not do to have a pigmy on guard. If we do, the robbers will overpower him and rob us. The only safe thing is to have Christ as the Guardian of our lives. He is able to defend us against all enemies.

It is not enough to have the devil in us driven out; an empty house is not protected. The evil will return and take possession again. That is the way some persons try to change their lives. They cease doing things that are wrong, but put nothing in the empty place. Soon they tire of the new way of living, and go back to the old evil things. The only safe way is to give up the evil and fill life and heart with good things. Empty the heart of hatred, bitterness, envy, and jealousy, and let Christ in and live there and make it His home. Napoleon used to say, "To replace is to conquer."

When the Pharisee saw it, he marveled that He had not first washed before dinner.—Luke 11:28.

SOME persons are a good deal more careful about manners than morals. Jesus. disregarded a conventional custom at the Pharisee's dinner that day, and the host took the matter very much to heart. If he spoke his criticism in the hearing of Jesus, he gravely violated the law of courtesy. A host must show the greatest regard for the feelings of his guest, and must take no notice of mere violations of etiquette.

The answer the Master gave to the Pharisee's criticism made it clear that morals are very much more important than manners. He told His host that the Pharisees were more careful about outside matters—forms and ceremonials; but meanwhile their inward part was full of extortions and wickedness. It is all right for us to be refined in our manners, to conform to the conventionalities of society, but in showing contempt for those who neglect these niceties of etiquette, we sin against them and grieve the Holy Spirit.

There is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed.— Luke 12:2.

CHRIST wants genuineness in His friends and followers. The sin which He condemned most unsparingly when He was on the earth was hypocrisy—men trying to pass for what they were not. There is still a great deal of hypocrisy in the world, and there is still the same need for insisting upon genuineness and sincerity.

Jesus shows how useless and unavailing it is to try to cover up things and to seem to be what we are not. There is nothing covered up that shall not be revealed, nothing hid that shall not be made known. People commit sins in the darkness, sins that would blacken their names if they were known. They suppose nobody suspects what they are doing in secret. But some day everything will come out. Even now secret evil works out, and blots and stains the life. The only safe way to live is to be sincere, genuine, true down to the bottom of one's heart, always as good and true in the secret things as in the most public things of life.

Seek not ye what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink.— Luke 12:29.

WORRY makes a great deal of unhappiness in the world, and does a great deal of harm. Jesus says, too, that we need never to be anxious about anything. He gives reasons, also, why we should not be. We need not worry about food and raiment. God feeds the birds, and His children are of more value than His birds. He clothes the lilies in matchless beauty, and we are certainly dearer to Him than the loveliest flowers.

Worry does not take away the things which trouble us. It unfits us for the best service. If our brain is feverish through anxiety, and our hand unsteady, we cannot do anything well. If we are really God's children, we need not give ourselves any concern about the things we need. All we have to do is to seek God's kingdom and His righteousness—that is, do our simple duty, as it is made known to us—and then God will take care of us. We often concern ourselves about God's care of us, while we neglect our duty to Him.

Blessed is that servant, whom his Lord when He cometh shall find so doing.—Luke 12:43.

LL things in life are uncertain. We

never know what will be on any tomorrow. We expect to live for many years, but we may die tonight. We have large plans for work in the future—plans which it will take us many years to complete. That is right. Because we may die tomorrow is no reason why we should not lay out work that it will take us a long while to finish. At the same time we should live every day so that if that day should be our last, it will be a good day for the ending of our life.

That is what Jesus meant when He said we should be always ready for His coming. The only way a servant can be surely ready for his Master, not knowing when He may appear, is to do his work faithfully every day, keeping all things continually in perfect order, so that he may never be surprised, however suddenly the Master may come, and so that when the Master comes He will not find things unfinished or in disorder.

Suppose ye that these Galilams were sinners above all the Galilams, because they suffered?—Luke 13:2.

f 11 HERE is a mystery in suffering which

ancient times the belief was that troubles were punishment for wrongs committed. We cannot tell why there is so much pain in human life. We may be sure, however, that if we accept our trouble, it will leave a blessing in our lives.

. There are many sufferers who are blessed above measure through their pain. I remember a woman who for fourteen years had not walked a step. She sat in her chair, unable to lift hand or foot. Every joint in her body was drawn, and she suffered excruciating pain continually. Yet I never saw such patience, such uncomplaining quietness. Her face shone as if it had been transfigured by a holy light burning within. She was a benediction to her household. There poured out from her room an influence which softened all the home hearts. There is a blessed ministry of suffering whose influence we never can realize in this world.

can fathom or understand. In

He went through the cities and villages, teaching, and journeying toward Jerusalem.—Luke 13:22.

JESUS was always going about doing good. He did a great many miracles, but there is reason to believe that, for every miracle he wrought, He performed a thousand little common kindnesses. Our verse for the day tells the story of we know not how many of these little kindnesses as He went through the hamlets and country places. No doubt each of the villages through which He passed was enriched by His coming. He left sicknesses healed, sorrows comforted, homes brightened, children blessed. For weeks and months the people would talk about His visit and the kindnesses He wrought.

Sometimes Jesus would take a long journey just to help one person. For example, His visit to Nain was made for the purpose of meeting a mother on her way to the grave with the body of her only son. He met the funeral procession and restored the boy to his mother. We should be ready to go leagues just to wipe away a tear or give relief to a sufferer.

Whosoever doth not bear his cross, and come after Me, cannot be My disciple.—Luke 14:27.

T I iHE condition of discipleship is absolute

*. devotion to our Master. Jesus does not mean that anyone is really to hate father or mother, or wife, or children, but that all other persons and all interests shall take second place. Christ Himself must have the

The great want of Christian life is a more complete surrender. We cannot serve two masters. If we choose to serve the world, we cannot serve Christ, for He accepts no half-hearted devotion. When Jesus says that if we will not renounce all we have we cannot be His disciples, He means everything that stands in the way of our discipleship. If He bids us give up anything, we are to do it. He means also, that all we are and all we have shall be absolutely His, at His disposal. This kind of Christian life is what is meant by good salt. The salt that has lost its savor is nominal Christian life, with so much of the world mixed in it that the Christian part of it is scarcely distinguish

first.

able.

When he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran.—Luke 15:20.

IT seems strange to us that any son should be so foolish as to leave a good home of love and happiness for a far country, with its disappointment, debasement, and degradation. But it is always the story of human sin. The part of the teaching which concerns us most is the return of the lost boy, and the way he was received by his father when he came back. A vision of the old home came to him in his want and wretchedness, and that drew him back. He came to himself and saw his folly. He was then brave enough to. confess it and come home.

The boy's reception is a picture of the way God receives those who come back from sin's wanderings. The father was watching, and saw his returning boy far off. He ran to meet him. God is ever watching for the first thought and act of penitence, and hastens to meet the returning one. We may be glad that this parable is in the Gospel, for no one need ever be afraid now to come back to God.

There was a certain rich man.…And there was a certain beggar.—Luke 16:19, 20.

TN this world the rich man seemed to have .* the better of it. He had all that human heart could wish, of wealth, splendor, luxury, and power. The beggar had a hard time. Nobody cared for him in his need— the only friends he had were the dogs.

But things were changed when the two men crossed the line. The beggar died first. Nobody mourned him, and there were no flowers, but he was carried by the angels into the place of blessedness. The rich man died too—death cannot be bribed. He had a great funeral, with pageant and splendor. He was lauded as a prosperous man, generous to his friends and charitable toward the poor. But meanwhile the man was in Hades, in torment, seeing the beggar now far above him, in blessedness.

The lesson is that not what one has, but what one is, counts with God. A poor man who loves God and his fellow man and is Faithful in all duty is richer by far than the millionaire who never thinks of God nor cares for his fellows.

Men ought always to pray, and not to faint.—Luke 18:1. \\ 7"E are all in danger of growing care

» » less in the matter of prayer. Many people never pray at all. Even many of those who say prayers regularly do not pray. As the flowers and plants on the earth need sunshine and rain from the heavens, so human lives need the benediction of God's love and grace continually.

The special lesson in prayer taught here is earnestness, importunity. We ought always to pray, and not to faint—that is, we should never get discouraged in our praying. Some people, after pleading for something for a long time, give it up just when God is about to send the answer.

It seems strange to have this unjust judge taken as an illustration of God, in any sense, or to have the judge's selfish acts used to show us how we can win blessings from God. But the meaning is, that if an unjust judge can be so influenced by persistent pleading, much more will the kind, loving Father be influenced by the importunate pleadings of His own needy children. They brought unto Him also infants.—Luke xviii. IS.

DOES Christ care for babies? Some people say no; they are too small for Christ to be interested in them. The disciples seem to have thought almost this, for they tried to keep the mothers from coming to Him with their infants, to get His blessing upon them. But Jesus rebuked the disciples and bade them let the children come.

Francis Xavier once was so weary in his missionary work that he said he must have sleep or he would die. He went to his tent and bade the servant to let nobody disturb him until he could get sleep. Scarcely had the tent door been closed when the attendant saw the monk beckoning to him. Then he said, "I made a mistake. If a little child comes, waken me."

This seems very much like Jesus. He was never so busy or so weary that He would turn away a little child or even keep it waiting. The Christ who loved little children in those days loves them still. He loves also all childlike ones, all who have the spirit of little children.

He sought to see Jesus.—Luke 19:3.

CHARLES WAGNER, in one of his sermons in this country, preached about Zacchaeus. First, he said that Zacchaeus was so little that he could not see Christ, and had to get up a little higher so that he could look at Him. A good many people are like Zacchaeus. They are little and cannot see over people's heads, and must get up higher before they can get a good view of Jesus Christ. They must leave their worldliness, their selfishness, and their sin, so as to get faith's look from higher ground.

The second thing about Zacchaeus, Mr. Wagner said, was that he had to come down from his high place before he could receive Christ. There are people also in these days who are too high up and have to get to lower ground before they can take Christ into their hearts and lives. We have to leave our pride, our self-confidence, our selfesteem, our own works, and come in penitence, in humility, in entire dependence upon Christ, before we can take Him into our hearts and know Him as our Savior and Friend.

The Lord hath need of him.—Luke 19:81.

IT would be well for us if we would learn to hold everything we have at Christ's disposal. When the owner of the colt asked the disciples, "Why loose ye the colt?" they said, "The Lord hath need of him." Then the owner let the beast go.

This is the way we ought to hold all we have. Whenever the Lord needs anything we own, we are to let Him have it. Sometimes He asks for things that are very dear to us, things that it almost breaks our hearts to part with. But we are instantly to let Him take what He will.

When a young Christian girl was about to start for a foreign field as a missionary, a neighbor said to her mother, "I should think it would almost kill you to give up your daughter to go to China." The mother replied quietly: "I gave my daughter to Christ when she was born. I did not know until lately what Christ wanted to do with her. But now that I have learned, I must let Him have His way."

He saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither two mites.—Luke 21:2.

IN our modern days most financial transactions are made in large figures. Men deal in millions, and not in shillings and pence. It seems hardly worth while to give a shilling or half a crown to God, when we read of some other person giving five or ten thousand pounds. But God takes as careful note of the smallest gifts as of the largest. That day in the temple the widow's mite amounted to more in His sight than all the large gifts which the rich men gave. She gave all, and had nothing left; they gave large sums, and had large sums remaining.

God is pleased with the smallest things that are done for Him, if they are done in love and faith. Some one said that Jesus built three monuments when He was on the earth—one for the widow who gave the two mites, one for the man who gave a cup of cold water to another who was thirsty, and the third for the woman who brought the alabaster box, of whom He said, " She hath done what she could."

But there shall not an hair of your head perish.—Luke 21:18.

JESUS spoke of great troubles, persecutions, and trials which should come upon His disciples, but He assured them that in the midst of all these perils they should be safe. Some of them would be delivered up by parents, brethren, kinsfolk, and friends, to endure persecution, and even to suffer death. But He added, "Not an hair of your head shall perish."

It is possible for men to be torn to pieces as to their bodies, and yet not hurt as to their lives. They may suffer the worst kind of physical suffering, but so long as their souls are without sin, they have received no real harm.

There is only one evil in the world—sin. No matter how much we may have to endure, if we are only Faithful, nothing can harm us. We should set our way, therefore, in life, not to miss the things that are hard, but in the worst of experiences to be loyal and true to Christ. Then He will shelter us and protect us, so that no evil can befall us.

I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not.— Luke 22:32.

IT ought to give us a new sense of strength to know that Jesus is watching and interceding for us. He had His eye on His disciples that night, and when they were about to pass through sore temptation, He made intercession for the one who was most in danger. Satan asked that he might have all the disciples, but the Master's prayer was for one of them. "Satan asked to have you, that he might sift you as wheat; but I made supplication for thee, Simon."

Weakness makes Christ's solicitude for us more tender, more loving. The harder jt is for us to live, the more earnestly does Christ pray for us, and the more powerfully does He help us.

It will do us good always to remember that this little story of Christ's intercession for one of His disciples is a sample of what is going on all the while. He watches from heaven, and when one of us is in danger, lifts up His hands before God and pleads for us.

Wilt thou set thine eyes upon that which is not?— Proverbs 23:5.

"TJEOPLE are badly cheated in this world.

They imagine that the things they can see are the real things, that gold, lands, and stocks are the true treasures. So they toil for these things and gather them into their possession, piling up what they suppose to be wealth. Thus they live in pomp, with their fine houses, and all their brilliant show. They call themselves millionaires. But one day their supposed riches take to themselves wings and fly away like eagles. Or they may keep their wealth, perchance, and die at last in the midst of it, and have a great funeral; but they find that they cannot carry a penny of it with them. "How much did he leave?" was asked about a rich man who had died. "He left all," was the answer.

If men only knew that there are things which will never fly away, they would no longer live for the wealth that perisheth; they would pass by these glittering unrealities to lay hold of the true riches. He who is rich toward God is the true millionaire.

He is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living. —Mark 12:27.

TESUS is the only Teacher whose words

*.» concerning the other world we may safely believe. Other men only speculate; Jesus knows the things He declares. There is impenetrable mystery about the grave. Where are the dead? Is there anything after death? The words of Jesus to the Sadducees seem very plain, and they tell us much that we are eager to know. When He says of the dead that they are "as angels in heaven," He probably has reference only to one matter, that they make up one community, and are not gathered again in separate families, as on earth.

The teaching of Jesus concerning the nature of death itself is far more important. "God is not the God of the dead, but of the living." That is, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob were not dead, but living that day at the burning bush. Moses and Elijah were living, too, in Christ's own time, for they visited Him on the Transfiguration Mount. So our loved ones who believed in Christ are living just as really as ever they lived.

Go your way into the milage:…as soon as ye be entered into it, ye shall find a colt tied.—Mask 11:2.

JESUS always knows what we will find on any road we may take. He knows what each and every tomorrow will be for us. We cannot map out a single day, but He knows all. Our life is not a haphazard thing. The events and incidents of our days are not accidents. They are all foreseen by our Lord, and are part of His plan for us. We meet a stranger. We say we met him by chance; but that chance meeting shapes all our future. Christ knew all about it, and sent us just the way we went. He planned that meeting.

If we understand this it cannot but give confidence to us as we go out day by day into life's unopened paths. We do not know what lies before us—-what experiences, duties, obstacles and hindrances, what sorrows and trials; but there is One who sees and knows it all, and He is our Friend and Guide. If we are ready simply to do His will, to follow His instructions, we shall find all prepared for our coming.

But when the Pharisees saw it, they said unto him.— Matthew 12:2.

T I THE Pharisees were very close observers .■. of what Jesus did. They went along with Him, not because they loved to be with Him, but as spies upon His conduct. The behavior of good people is watched by unfriendly eyes. Hence we should live most carefully, so as to give no cause for blame. At the same time the example of Christ's disciples here shows us that we are not to be slaves of opinions which have no foundation in the Word of God.

Another lesson is, that we can find better business than playing spy on the lives and conduct of our fellow men. The unfriendly espionage of the Pharisees on the actions of our Lord and His disciples was most mean and contemptible. But it is no less mean and contemptible for us to watch our fellow Christians, just to discover faults in them. Suppose they do not live as they should live; do we have to answer for their conduct? Perhaps our sin of uncharitableness in judging may be as great as the sin in them, which we are so quick to condemn.

Peter, James, and John his brother.—Matt. xvii. I.

JESUS had His special friendships. All the apostles belonged to His personal family, but there were three who enjoyed closest intimacy with Him. In the Garden of Gethsemane these three were chosen to be nearest to Him, that by their sympathy they might strengthen Him and thus help Him to endure His sore agony.

There must have been something in these three men which fitted them for the place in the inner circle to which they were admitted. It was not mere blind partiality in Jesus that made them His best-beloved. We know that the holiest get nearest to Christ. Faith also brings us near, while doubt and unbelief separate. Purity of heart brings us close—the pure in heart shall see God. Likeness to Christ fits for personal friendship.

Jesus said that those who serve most selfforgetfully are first in His' kingdom. Selfishness keeps us far off. It is a comfort to find that Peter, though very faulty, was admitted to closest friendship with Christ.

There appeared unto them Moses and Elijah talking with Him.—Matthew 17:3.

FOR about nine hundred years Elijah had been in heaven, and for more than fourteen hundred years Moses had been away from this world, but both reappear here, still living, speaking, and working. There are many proofs of immortality; here is an illustration—we see two men, centuries after they had lived on earth, still alive and busy in God's service. It will be the same with us and our friends—thousands of years after we have vanished from earth we shall still be living and active.

It is interesting to think of the talk which these two men had with Jesus. They were sent to strengthen Him as He set out for His cross. He would have bitter sorrows, and they came to speak their word of cheer. No doubt His heart was stronger because of this visitation. May there not be a hint in this of the kind of employment that shall fill the hands of the redeemed in the other life? Possibly we may be sent to distant worlds, on errands of love, to carry help to weary ones.

Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?—Matt. xviii. i.

THE Bible does not hide the faults of its saints. It paints them just as they are, blemishes and all. The disciples of Jesus joined in an unseemly scramble for office, thinking their Master was to be a king. There are ambitions and scrambles of the same kind, even among good people, in our own day. Of course it is no excuse for them that Christ's apostles set the example. We ought to be a good deal better than the apostles were, for we have more light, greater privileges and better opportunities.

There is one right way of wishing to be great in Christ's kingdom. It is right for us to long to be great Christians; that is, to have much of the spirit of Christ. One used to pray, " Lord, make me an uncommon Christian." That was right. Paul pressed ever toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God. A hymn gives the prayer of many hearts: "Nearer, my God, to Thee." If it is spiritual greatness we long for, it is a mark of living faith. To be satisfied as we are is a mark of death.

Watch, therefore: for ye know not what hour your Lord dotli come.—Matthew 24:42.

THE command to watch rings out continually in the Bible. We are bidden to watch against temptation, for sin's approaches are insidious. Here, however, the watching is to be in readiness for a stupendous event—the coming of Christ. His coming will be unannounced. The only way, therefore, to be ready when the event occurs, is to be always ready. If there is an hour when we relax our diligence and cease to watch, that may be the hour when He will come.

There is a legend of a man who waited a thousand years before the gates of Paradise, watching for them to open. At last he slept for but one hour. Yet during that hour the gates opened and were closed again, and thus he missed his one opportunity of entering.

The second coming of Christ will be so

sudden that no preparation can be made for

it after He appears. We must live so that

there will not be a moment when we would

be ashamed to have Christ come into our

place of business and find us as we are. Jesus held His peace.—Matthew 26:63.

TI THE striking thing about the trial of Jesus was that His enemies could find nothing against Him. It is worth our while, too, to notice how Jesus answered the calumnies and false witnessings—He was silent to all the charges. It is well we should remember how our Master bore Himself when He was wronged. We should not vex ourselves over unkind treatment from others. It is a great lesson, to learn to be silent under injury. We talk altogether too much. Yet there come times when we must speak, when it would be treason to truth to remain silent. Jesus answered not a word before His accusers, until the high priest adjured Him to say whether He was the Messiah or not. At once He broke silence. We must never be silent when the interests of right and truth demand that we speak.

The saddest thing in all that night to Jesus was the denial by His greatest apostle. We give Him joy by being Faithful and true to Him; we grieve Him by every act or word or thought of disloyalty.

Jesus…saw much people, and was moved with compassion toward them.—Mark 6:34.

HE carried the people's sorrows. When He looked upon grief, He felt grief in His own soul. When He looked upon the great throng of people who flocked after Him and saw among them so many suffering ones—lame, sick, blind, palsied—His compassions were stirred. That same compassion exists still in the breast of the risen Lord in glory. He did not lose His tenderness of heart when He was exalted to heaven. "We have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities." It ought to be a great comfort in any sorrow of ours to know that from heaven Jesus looks upon us in deep sympathy, and that His compassions are stirred by every pain and need of ours.

The special thing in this company that so moved Christ was that the people were as sheep not having a shepherd. Many men seem prosperous in our eyes, and yet when Christ looks upon them He is moved with compassion because they know not God.

Then cometh Jesus from Galilee.—Matthew 3:13.

IT is interesting to think about the thirty silent years which Jesus spent in Galilee. During this time He had been living a quiet life in a lowly home. He had employed all His wondrous power in doing common things. He spoke in the temple about doing the Father's business, and then for eighteen years lived in a humble home doing only the plain, common things of each day.

We need not repine at our limited sphere, nor sigh for more room for our powers, since in a mechanic's occupation, in a peasant home, in an obscure village, the Lord of glory for thirty years found room for his great life.

We should notice, too, that Jesus was in no hurry to enter upon His public ministry. He took plenty of time to prepare for His work. Many young people in these days are in such haste to get into their calling that they can scarcely wait to prepare for it. Years spent in diligent preparation for life are never wasted years.

The heavens were opened unto Him, and He saw the Spirit of Ood descending like a dove, and lighting upon Him. —Matthew 3:16.

THIS was God's answer to the consecration of the Messiah. A great many tender thoughts cluster around the dove. It was the dove that the very poor were allowed to bring to the altar as an offering, in place of a more costly sacrifice. The appearance of the dove was a harbinger of coming spring. It was always remembered, too, by the Jews in connection with the abatement of the deluge, when the dove returned to the ark bearing the olive leaf; • and the dove has become among all nations an emblem of peace. The dove was referred to by Christ as a sign of gentleness and harmlessness in life.

All these associations made the dove a fitting emblematic form for the Holy Spirit to assume when descending upon Jesus. Jesus came to be a sacrifice for all, even the poorest. He came as the spring comes, bringing life to the dead world. He came bearing a message of peace to every one. And He is like the dove in gentleness and harmlessness.

Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit…to be tempted. —Matthew 4:1.

HIS was just after Christ's anointing

.■. for His ministry. He had received the Holy Spirit, and had heard the voice from heaven proclaiming His Messiahship. An old writer says, "All the while our Savior stayed in His father's shop and meddled only with carpenter's chips, the devil troubled Him not; now that He was to enter more publicly upon His mediatorship, the tempter pierceth His tender soul with many arrows by solicitation to sin."

Temptation was part of Christ's prep- • aration for His ministry. He was not ready to enter upon His work as our Redeemer until He had met and overcome the tempter. We know that He is able to deliver us out of the hands of Satan, because He overcame in His own battles.

Another reason why Jesus was tempted at the beginning of His ministry was that He might understand from personal experience the power of temptation, and thus be prepared to sympathize with us in our temptations.

He was afterward an hungred.…The tempter came. —Matthew 4:2, 3.

THE devil watches for seasonable times. He knows when to bring his temptations to bear upon a man. Everyone has his weak hours, and Satan lies in wait for these hours. He does not tempt us with something we do not want, but with something that will appeal to a craving of our nature. Satan watches, and when he finds us weak and weary, he takes advantage of our condition. Thus he came to Elijah after the strain of Carmel and caused him to flee. He comes to the lonesome and homesick boy, tempting him to seek company that will ruin him.

He adapts his temptations to our special experiences. Jesus was hungry, after His long fasting, and Satan tempted Him to use His divine power to turn stones into bread. Many temptations come to people who are hungry. They are tempted to steal, to be dishonest, or in some way to sell themselves to get bread. We need always to learn to trust the keeping of our souls to Him who has overcome the tempter.

If Thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread.—Matthew 4:8.

IF Jesus had turned one of the flat stones at His feet into a loaf of bread to break His own fast, would He have sinned? Whywould it have been a sin for Him to do this? For one thing, he would then have taken His guidance from Satan, instead of from the Father.

Another reason was, that He was in this world to live as men must live. He was to meet life as we must meet it. If He had continually used His divine power to help Him over the hard points, He would not have understood our life, for we cannot do this. Therefore He never wrought a miracle for Himself to make life easier. It would have been a violation of this law of His life if He had wrought this miracle to feed His hunger.

Then, again, it would have been distrusting His Father. He was under divine care, and God had given Him no command to make bread of the stones. We too must stand where God puts us, and wait for Him to bring help in His own way.

And Jesus…saw two brethren…casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers.—Matthew 4:18.

IT is interesting to notice the kinds of persons Christ sought for disciples. He wanted men who could be influenced by Him for good, whom He could train in the ways of His kingdom. It may be noticed, too, that He did not take those who were unemployed: He went among those who were busy in their common work.

Jesus is always looking for men to enter with Him into the work of His kingdom. He does not choose those who are wise in this world's wisdom, for they might not readily accept the wisdom which He teaches. He goes among those who are simple-hearted, open-hearted, warm-hearted, and who are busy at their duty of the day. God found a king for Israel in a boy keeping sheep. He found a prophet to succeed Elijah in a young man plowing in the field.

If we would be chosen to take a part in Christ's work, we must seek to be ready for it, with warm heart, mind open to receive truth, and ready for any service to which God may call us.

For they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen 0} men.— Matthew 6:5.

THEY do not pray to God at all, and their aim is not to receive blessings in answer, but to have men think that they are devout. They have their reward—that is, they get what they pray for: men see them.

We need to guard against an expression of our religion for men's eyes, and not for God's. It were better if we gave our gifts without any thought of praise or commendation, simply for the sake of Christ, and for the helping of others.

We should train ourselves to do our good deeds without seeking praise. Florence Nightingale, having gone like an angel of mercy among the hospitals in the Crimea, until her name was enshrined deep in every soldier's heart, asked to be excused from having her picture taken, as thousands begged her to do, that she might drop out and be forgotten, and that Christ alone might be remembered as the Author of the blessings which her hand had distributed in His name.

Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought.—Matthew 6:25. /'~\NE does not meet many whose faces

^—' shine always with the light of a perfect peace. Is worrying a sin, or is it only an infirmity? There certainly are many warnings in the Bible against it. Isaiah gives the secret of an unanxious life: "Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on Thee." Paul exhorts against worrying, and tells us how to keep it out of our life: " In nothing be anxious." But how can we obey this counsel? The answer is: "In everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God." Instead of worrying about matters, we are to put them out of our hands into God's by prayer. Then "the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus." Peter puts the lesson in this way: "Casting all your anxiety upon Him, because He careth for you." This is a lesson which we are to learn, and which we are to strive to live out in our common days.

Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and His righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you.—Matthew 6:33.

WE are to put all our energy into one effort—to do God's will. We are not to be anxious about raiment or food—that is God's matter. We are to take thought, however, about our duty, the filling of our place in the world. Too many people worry far more about food and raiment, lest they shall be left to want, than about doing the will of God. That is, they are more anxious about God's part in their life than about their own. They fear that God may not take care of them, but they do not fear that they may fail in faithfulness.

We should learn once for all that providing for our wants is God's matter, not ours; and that our only care should be our duty. This God will never do for us, but if we are true to Him we shall never have any occasion to fret about our care. Suppose we are starving? Well, we must continue doing our duty in the circumstances, and not worrying; and in due time the Lord will provide.

He saw a man…sitting at the receipt of custom.— Matthew 9:9.

THE men who collected the toll were a low class of Jews. As a rule they were dishonest, extortioners, men who robbed the people by overtaxing them. As Jesus passed this booth by the seaside, that day, he looked in and saw the very man he wanted. It was not the publican, as he then was, that attracted Jesus, but the man who would emerge under the influence of divine love. As Michael Angelo saw his wondrous statue of the young David in the soiled and castaway block of marble, so Jesus saw in the outcast Levi the apostle whose name is now so honored.

"Each human soul is like a cavern full of gems. The casual observer glances into it through some cranny, and all looks dark and sullen. But let light enter it, lift a torch up to the walls, let God's sunlight fall into it and flood its open recesses, and lo! it will flash with crystals and with amethysts, and each separate crystal will quiver under the touch of brightness with a transporting discovery of its own nature."

Can the children of the bridechamber mourn, as long as the bridegroom is with them?—Matthew 9:15.

CHRISTIANITY is a religion of sincerity, and not of empty forms. The Jews had drifted away from spiritual religion, and in consequence had multiplied meaningless ceremonies. They may have been in the midst of joy and gladness, but when the prescribed hour for fasting came they put on their sackcloth and other marks of sorrow, began to wear sad looks, and entered upon the set period of mourning. Such a practice led to insincerity. Ofttimes it was an utterly false expression of the inner life.

Jesus struck a blow at this hollowness, and refused to conform to it. Fasting is a symbol of mourning, of sorrow; to go through the form of fasting, therefore, when the heart is joyous, is only a farce. When there is an occasion for mourning, let there be mourning, but not otherwise. That is, Jesus teaches that our religion must always be sincere, never affected or hypocritical. He condemns as sacrilegious all overexpressions of religious emotion or feeling.

Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas, and Matthew the publican.—Matthew 10:3.

IT is remarkable how little we know about most of the apostles. Peter, James, and John, we know quite well. Matthew we know by the Gospel he wrote. Thomas we remember by his doubts. James, the son of Alphaeus, wrote an epistle. Another Judas, not Iscariot, left us a little letter. Of the rest we know almost nothing but their names.

No doubt one reason why no more is told about the apostles is that the Bible magnifies only one name. The Gospels were written to hold up Christ before the world. We need not trouble ourselves about the obscurity of great men. Earth keeps scant records of its benefactors, but there is a place where every smallest kindness done in the name of Christ is recorded and remembered. The stories of the obscure apostles and of the beautiful lives which have wrought for God and for man have vanished, but are recorded indelibly before God. Their memorials are in other lives, and some day every touch and impression will be revealed.

Then began He to upbraid the cities wherein most of His mighty works were done, because they repented not.—Matthew 11:20.

EVEN Christ's work sometimes seemed to fail of results. We should not then be cast down if sometimes our work does not appear to yield any results. It may be no fault of ours that there is no harvest. It certainly was no fault of Jesus-if His work was not always successful.

There is something else in these words: mercy rejected is changed to judgment. Jesus had long poured out His grace upon these cities. He had lived among the people; they knew His life. He had wrought miracles of healing before their eyes and spoken words of truth in their ears. But they had rejected all His teachings and shut their hearts against His love. So now He upbraids them. Even Christ's denunciations are full of tears. Yet we must not think that He was incapable of severity. He whose love glowed in such infinite tenderness on the cross will sit on the throne of judgment and His presence will smite terror into the hearts of all His enemies.

They were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord.—Luke 1:6.

IT is a beautiful thing that we read of this good old couple, Zacharias and Elisabeth, that they were righteous before God. Some people appear to men to be righteous, who before God have no such record. Real character is what our hearts are, our hearts make us. We ought not to be satisfied with doing well the things which men can see; we ought to work and live ever for God's eye. Sometimes we say it is no matter how we do certain things, because nobody will see them. But we should remember that God will see them, and surely we should never do careless, faulty work for His eye.

The word "commandments" suggests that the holiness of these people was of a very practical kind. Some people's religion is chiefly emotional. They talk about loving God, but they pay little heed to the commandments. God is pleased with ardent devotions, but He wants us to prove our religion by obediences, by doing the things He gives us to do.

On earth peace.—Luke 2:14.

THERE is a beautiful verse in one of the old prophets which says: " I know the thoughts which I think toward you, saith the Lord, thoughts of peace, and not of evil." All God's thoughts toward us are thoughts of peace. Even in our sins His thoughts are only of love. He does not desire the sinner's death, but that he would repent and live.

The coming of Christ to live, suffer, and die for our redemption was one of God's thoughts of peace, the most wonderful of them all. It showed how much God loves us, what He was willing to do to make peace for us. Christ first made peace for us by bearing our sins. From the cross went forth the proclamation, offering peace to all who would accept it. Jesus said: "Peace I leave with you, My peace I give unto you." Then Paul says: "The peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus." So, everywhere the gospel goes, with its message of peace to them that are afar off and to them that are nigh.

The shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethelehem, and see this thing.—Luke 2:15.

if the

rtk IT ERE we see the simple faith of these saitl shepherds. They raised no doubt,

J „f asked no questions, expressed no feeling of sr( uncertainty. They had the faith of little jjjj children. They did not say, "sLet us go and jf. see if this thing is true;" but, "Let us go and see this thing." We are too apt to doubt, and to ask for more proof. It is better for us ^ to believe without questioning, and then to go at once to find and see what the Word 0f of God promises.

us The shepherds were so sure that they

^ should find the Babe lying in a manger that ^ they at once hurried away into the town to ^ begin their search. It would be well for us ^ if we had faith as simple and as earnest. In the next verse we read: "They came with t haste, and found both Mary and Joseph,

t and the Babe lying in a manger." In like

manner whatever the divine promise may be, 1 if we believe it and hasten to seek the prom

ised blessing, we shall find it just as the Word of God says we shall.

He went down with them,…and was subject unto them.—Luke 2:51.

JESUS went back to Nazareth, where He remained obeying His parents, and proving in all ways dutiful, reverent, and helpful. He found childhood in a lowly home a large place enough for His divine life.

Browning represents Gabriel taking the place of a poor boy and working for him at his lowly trade, as content as if he was engaged in the highest service. But here is something sublimer than even the poet's fancy. Should any child, however great his gifts, consider the child-place in a home unworthy, since the Son of God found the Father's business for so many years in such a humble home?" A life spent in brushing clothes and washing crockery and sweeping floors—a life which the proud of the earth would treat as the dust under their feet—a life spent at the clerk's desk, a life spent in the narrow shop, a life spent in the laborer's hut, may yet be a life so ennobled by God's loving mercy that for the sake of it a king might gladly yield his crown." Thai pui far ayxty the evil day.—Amos 6:3.

WE are taught not to borrow trouble. "Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof." It is not right for us to look forward, imagining troubles that may come to us after a while, or even forecasting trials which we must meet by and by. The true Christian way of living is to do the duty of the present day faithfully and well, leaving all the issues in God's hands.

But if a man has a note of a thousand dollars to meet on a certain day, it will not do for him to put off all thought about the matter until the day comes to find him unprepared. He must get ready to pay the note when it falls due. We must lay up in summer days, when harvests are golden, for winter days, when it will not be possible for us to gather food. We must prepare for the days of old age by activity, diligence, economy, and carefulness in the days of early manhood. We must prepare for the day of judgment by living in such a way that when we stand before Christ we shall pot be afraid.

The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge.— Proverbs 1:7.

YOU may set down six ciphers—000,000 —and they count for nothing; but if you put a five or any figure before them, they all count—5,000,000. Human knowledge alone only adds up a row of ciphers. A young man goes through the university and then passes through his medical or law school and is graduated with honors, a learned man, but not yet a Christian. His acquirements make only a long row of ciphers. These will be elements of power if he only gets in before them something that counts. Then he gives himself to Christ, consecrates all his attainments to Him, and every one of his acquirements assumes a high value. He has written a figure before the row of ciphers, and 000,000,000 has become 6,000,000,000.

The more a man knows, the more of a man he is, if he loves, reverences, and obeys God. But this is the first thing in all true wisdom. Not to have it, is to make failure out of life; and the greater the other acquirements the greater the failure.

My son, despise not the chastening of the Lord.—Proverbs 3:11.

HE Bible always talks to us as children.

A It comes with a Father's authority, and also a Father's gentleness. It is hard, however, not to despise chastening. Of course, it is not possible that we should really find pleasure in being chastened. That is not natural. Indeed the Bible says, "No chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous." Not even the grace of God in our hearts can take the sting out of chastening. We are not expected then to like it. But we are told not to " despise " it. That is, we are to accept it without murmuring.

It will help us to receive chastening meekly, in faith and love, if we remember that it is "of the Lord." He sends it. We know that He loves us with infinite affection. He would not take pleasure therefore in causing us pain, nor would He do it at all, were it not in some way for our good. It is because He loves us and would do us goodthat He sends or permits the suffering.

So teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom.—Psalm 90:12.

THE last day of a year should make us thoughtful. We cannot but ask whether we have been Faithful, whether we have done all our duty, and whether we have learned the lessons set for us during the year. There is none who has not come short, and who has left no duty undone. There is none who has left no white page blotted.

One purpose of life is that we may grow, that in all the experiences of our days we may be learning new lessons and becoming better. Growth of the body is not all, nor is growth in knowledge the test of living. One may be physically stronger and yet be no better in character. One may know a great deal more and yet be no wiser. We are growing only when the peace of our heart is becoming deeper, when we love more and are gentler, sweeter, and more unselfish. We shall want to make this last day of the year very beautiful—beautiful enough to. be the last of our life. We should leave no duty undone when its last hour strikes.

