
G.CAMPBELL MORG^ 

Ilil 

iiH 1 ' 2:1 

i 

1 ■ 1 

. 

!i)Hi!iliiJllii;i 

IBilill ill! ilW 

) ' ' ' y i; id^^^^^^^^^^^^^^H 

■p 

.,,.m,nnnM 3790 SH^Hl 

il 

tihvaty of t:he trheolo^icd ^tminavy 

PRINCETON • NEW JERSEY 

PRESENTED BY 

The Estate of 
Rockwell S. Brank 

BV 3790 .M75 1904 
Morgan, G. Campbell 1863 

1945. 
Evangelism 

/h^^LMc^Ce- 

O . / S^x/v/v. 

EVANGELISM 

Works by O. 
Campbell Morgan 

A New Popular Edition 

The CHI SB s or thbi 
Chsisx. 

Dr. Morgan's Most 
Comprehensive Work. 
8vo, cloth, ^1.50 net. 

A First CettttthyMb s* 
baob to twbn-tibth 
Cbh"TI7H"s: Chkistian-s. 

Addresses upon "The 
Seven Churches of 
Asia." Cloth, net $1.00. 

Thb Spihit op God. 

1:2mo, cloth, Ji. 25. 

GoD's Methods "w^th 

Maw, 

In Timb— Past, Prbs- 

BNT AND Future. 
With colored chart, 
izmo, paper, 50 cents. 
Cloth, ^i .00. 

"Wheheis- Hatsi TVh 
KoBBBD God? 

Malachi's Message to 
THE Men of To-Day. 
lamo, cloth, 75 cents. 

GOD'S PBHrKOT 
WXI-L. 

50:6mo, cloth, 50 cents net. 

I<IFE FS0DX.EaiS. 

Little Books Series. 
Long 1:6mo, 50 cents. 

The Tebt Commastd* 

meitts. 

Studies in the Law op 

MOSES AND THE LaW OF 

Christ. 

izmo, cloth, 50 cents net. 

d1soipi.bship. 

Little Books Series. 
Long 1:6mo, cloth, 50c. 

The HiDDEir Tbaks 
AT Nazabeth. 

Quiet Hour Series. 
50:8mo, cloth, 25 cents. 

ESTIMATB 

The TBino 

OF LiIFE. 

An Entirely New, Re- 
vised AND Enlarged 
Edition. 
80 cents net. 

"Axr* THiiros Na^w." 

A Mess AGS to New 

Converts. 

1:6mo, paper, 10 cents net. 

EVANGELISM 

${ Of FR/i^ 

'V 

^ NOV 15 1947 . 

BY 

^ 

REV. G. CAMPBELL MORGAN 

f> 

\^ 

^ 

FLEMING H. REVELL COMPANY, 
Chicago. new York. Toronto, 

Publishers of Evangelical Literature. 

COPYRIGHT 1904 

BY 

REV. G. CAMPBELL MORGAN, D. D. 

TO 

THE FACULTIES AND STUDENTS 

OF 

HARTFORD, CHICAGO, BERKELEY AND DAY- 
TON THEOLOGICAL SEMINARIES 
1903-1904. 

To whom it was my pleasure and privilege 
to speak on Evangelism at their request, 
these stenographic reports of those ad- 
dresses are dedicated with the earnest 
hope that they may be of some service in 
at least one branch of the ministry of the 
future. 

CONTENTS 

,^'1. The Evangel 

II. The Church Evangelistic 

III. The Evangelist 

IV. The Evangelistic Service 
V. The Present Opportunity 

7 
25 
42 
63 

EVANGELISM. 
I. 

THE EVANGEi;. 

The Hour is characterized by renewed interest in evan- 
gelistic work. Men of all shades of opinion, and men who 
do not seem to have very profound opinions of any sort, 
are nevertheless turning their attention towards the great 
subject of evangelism. I suppose there are a few people 
in the Christian Church who have no particular interest 
in the subject. All I can say of such is, that they are 
living in the mental mood of at least ten years ago. 

A new interest in evangelistic work is manifesting itself 
in different ways. Some people are giving themselves to 
prayer, that God will give us "an old-fashioned revival." 
On the other hand, a great many people, equally de- 
voted and sincere, yet who are out of harmony with what 
they speak of as the older methods of theological think- 
ing, are nevertheless looking for some visitation. These, 
instead of praying for an old-fashioned revival are at- 
tempting to forecast the lines of what they call "the new 
evangelism." Now I do not want to be unkindly critical, 
for I am profoundly conscious that the underlying fact 

8 BVANGBLISM. 

in each case is of supreme value, but I would never pray 
for an old-fashioned revival, nor would I attempt to fore- 
cast the lines of a new evangelism. But why not pray 
for an old-fashioned revival? Because I want God's next 
new thing. Then why not forecast the lines of a new 
evangelism? Because one evangel is enough for all time. 

If a man is praying for an old-fashioned revival, in all 
probability when God's visitation comes, he will not be 
conscious of it. I can quite imagine how forty years 
ago, men remembering the marvelous movement under 
Finney, might have prayed for an old-fashioned revival 
such as that which accompanied his preaching. Then it 
is more than likely that when God raised up Dwight 
Lyman Moody, such men would be out of sympathy with 
all his methods for a long while, for the notes of the two 
movements were utterly different. Or to go back still 
further before the great awakening under Finney, per- 
haps some prayed for an old-fashioned revival, like that 
under Wesley and Whitefield. If so, they almost cer- 
tainly lacked sympathy with the new notes at first. 

God fulfills Himself in many ways. In every new 
awakening there are fresh manifestations of God, new 
unfoldings of truth meeting the requirements of the age. 
The evangel is always fresh as the break of day, and yet 
as old as the continuity of day-break through the ages. 
We ought to be so living that when God begins His great 
triumphant march, we shall fall in with the first battalion, 
and have part in the first victories. 

THB BVANGBL. 9 

It is equally false to speak of a new evangelism, be- 
cause there is to be no new evangel. When I read what 
that very brilliant, and very devoted Christian man. Dr. 
John Watson, says the lines of the new evangelism are to 
be, I am in agreement with all he does say, and out of 
agreement in that there are things he does not say. All 
he says is true. But there are important things he omits. 
The next great movement will have within it the notes 
of the social and the ethical. But there will not be 
omitted from it the notes of blood redemption, and spirit- 
ual regeneration. These are the truths we have to keep in 
mind. When I hear of men speaking of a new evangelism, 
it is well to ask their definition of the term evangelism. 
When I see that Mr. B. Fay Mills has gone out into 
evangelistic work the first impulse of the heart is to re- 
joice. But when I find that he is simply preaching a doc- 
trine of a social kingdom, without insistence upon the ne- 
cessity for regeneration, then it is time we declare our 
separation. 

To say that the new evangelism is to be ethical, and by 
that to seem to criticize the old, is to prove a misunder- 
standing of the old, and also a misunderstanding of 
the deepest necessity of the times in which we live 
and serve. When a man tells me the next revival will 
be ethical, does he mean to say that the last was 
not? If the great movements under Wesley, White- 
field, Finney, Moody were not ethical, what were they? 
They were movements that took hold of vast masses of 

10 BVANGBLISM. 

men, and moved them out of back streets into front ones, 
and if that was not ethical, surely nothing can be so. 
Beginning with the regeneration of the man, they changed 
his environment, and made him a citizen of whom any 
city might have been proud. That is the true ethical note. 

In approaching a constructive statement concerning the 
evangel, I must ask you to take two things for granted: 
first, the finality of Christianity; and secondly, that the 
New Testament is the authoritative interpretation thereof. 
By the finality of Christianity I mean that the writer of the 
letter to the Hebrews is correct in his estimate as de- 
clared in his opening sentences. God speaks to man. He 
has spoken to men in the past in divers portions, and in 
divers manners. All the messages of prophets, seers, 
and psalmists, of rites, ceremonies, and symbols were 
but broken lights of essential truth. But He has spoken 
unto us by His Son, and He has no more to say to men 
than He has said in Jesus Christ. That does not mean for 
a single moment that we have perfectly understood the 
message of the Son yet. I believe that there is more light 
and truth to break out from the words of Jesus, and 
from the fact of Christ in the world, than men have ever 
seen. But God has said everything He has to say, and any 
new so-called revelation in conflict with that spoken by 
God in His Son is thereby proven to be not of the Spirit 
of God, but from beneath and of the devil. 

In the second place it must also be accepted that the 
New Testament is the authoritative interpretation of 

THB nVANGHL. H 

Christianity. I hear a good deal today about the Chris- 
tian consciousness as the true court of appeal in matters 
of faith and practice. I am searching for that Christian 
consciousness. Is it that of the Pope, or my own? Is it 
consensus of opinion? Then where shall I find it ex- 
pressed? I decline to accept it as expressed in any creed. 
Where then is it? 

The fact is that the Christian consciousness is a vari- 
able quantity according to differing experiences, and is 
therefore wholly unreliable as a criterion of creed or char- 
acter or conduct. The Christian consciousness must ever 
be judged by a standard, and that is to be found in the 
New Testament. If you once take away the New Testa- 
ment as the final court of appeal in matters of faith and 
practice, you will lose the Christian consciousness in half 
a century. It has been done once. The New Testament 
was lost to the churches in the dark ages. Then Luther 
arose, and following the restoration of the New Testament 
there came back the Christian consciousness. The court 
of appeal is the New Testament. 

What is the Christian evangel? There is a prelimi- 
nary question which I shall first attempt to answer. What 
is an evangel? This word evangel has come to us from 
the Latin evangelium, which simply means a gospel, for 
the word was introduced to the language during the eccle- 
siastical period. So we must pass back behind this word 
as it came to us from the Latin, and find it as it stands 
upon the pages of our Greek Testament. There it simply 

12 nVANGBLISM. 

means a good message. A good message! There is no 
note of sadness in an evangel. There is not a tone of ter- 
ror in an evangel. An evangel is good news. An evangel 
is a good message. 

In the New Testament the thought is invariably that 
of glad tidings, of good news, of a message that ought to 
fill the hearts of those who hear it with hope and gladness 
and joy. The word, and cognate words, are used by the 
writers of the New Testament who deal specially with 
the subject of the work of Christ in its first application 
to the needs of men. And these words are singularly 
absent from those writings which deal with the deeper 
truths of Christian experience. Take the Gospels, which 
we speak of as synoptic, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, and 
you will find the words recurring all the way through, 
evangel, or evangelist, or some cognate word. But in 
the Gospel of John, the word is never used simply be- 
cause the Gospel of John deals with the mystery of 
Christ's Person, and this can only be appreciated by those 
born again. The evangel is the wicket gate of the king- 
dom. So also with the other writings. Paul, and Peter 
in his first epistle, and the writer of the letter to the 
Hebrews have these words, and this because they are in 
all these writings dealing with the initial facts. But they 
are signally absent from the writings of John and James 
and Jude, and the second letter of Peter. All this indi- 
cates the principal thought of evangelism, and the value 
of the word as it lies in the New Testament. 

THU BVANGBL. 13 

The evangel is not denunciatory of sin. It is not pro- 
nunciatory of punishment. It is annunciatory of salvation. 
That is its great value. This is not to say that the 
preacher will not have to discuss the subject of sin, will 
not have to proclaim the punishment of sin. But it is 
to say that the preacher who deals with and denounces 
sin, will never end his message with such denunciation. 
He proclaims God's evangel when he announces the fact 
that Christ is able to save from sin, and consequently from 
its penalty. So also the evangelist may have, and indeed 
will have to deal with the severer aspects of truth. He 
will have to tell men that to such as have heard the evan- 
gel, to such as have been confronted with the claims of 
Jesus Christ, there can be no escape if they turn their 
back upon that which is God's uttermost in the way of 
saving men. But he will never proclaim that alone. He 
must super-add the great and glorious and hopeful decla- 
ration that their sins were borne by the One Who hung 
on the tree, and being so borne, in the infinite mercy and 
justice of God they may go free. 

An evangel, therefore, is good news to such as need 
it. Joy is in it, the note of hope, of optimism. It comes 
to a man in the darkness, and brings him light. It comes 
to a man in bondage, and announces the way of escape. 
It comes to a man under the sentence of death, and tells 
him that the sentence has been remitted. 

What then is the Christian evangel as revealed to us 
in the New Testament? It has four essential notes. 

14 BVANGBLISM. 

The first is that of a vision; the second, that of a value; 
the third, that of a virtue; and the fourth, that of a 
victory. The evangel proclaims first, the Lordship of 
Christ; secondly, the Cross of Christ; thirdly, the resur- 
rection of Christ; and finally an indwelling Christ by the 
Holy Spirit. 

First, the Lordship of Jesus. Now you may say to 
me, But have you put these in their right order? Is it 
not true that the first business of the evangel is to preach 
the Cross of Christ? I do not think so. I believe that 
the first note of the true evangel is that of announcing to 
men the Lordship of Christ. I am quite willing to grant 
you that very largely that has been omitted from much 
evangelistic preaching which has been blessed by God, and 
yet I am profoundly convinced that the evangelist who is 
going to take hold of the masses must return to the old 
apostolic method of preaching Jesus as Lord first. But 
it may be objected He cannot be Lord of a man's life 
until the man is saved. Quite true, but the vast majority 
of people will never begin to feel their need of His salva- 
tion until they have been brought to stand in the light of 
the claim of His Lordship, and so I insist upon the put- 
ting of this first. 

This was the apostolic method. In the second chapter 
of the Acts of the Apostles we have the first sermon 
preached in the power of the outpoured Spirit, which is 
a perfect pattern for true Christian homiletics to the 
end of time. It is from first to last an appeal to the men 

THB BVANGBL. 15 

who were listening. Peter was not preaching In front 
of the people and wondering whether they would like It. 
He was preaching to them. And the difference between 
the preaching that does nothing and the preaching that 
does something Is the difference between preaching before 
people, and preaching to people. Let us look at Its struc- 
ture. It has two divisions. First, "This Is that." Sec- 
ondly, "He hath shed forth this." "This is that which was 
spoken by the prophet Joel," the present manifestation set 
in its relation to old time prophesying. This day of Pen- 
tecost Is the fulfillment of the past. "He hath shed forth 
this." The past was fulfilled through Jesus. He was 
the center, and heart, and life of the first sermon. And 
the final word of the sermon, to which everything led up 
was, "Let all the house of Israel therefore know assuredly, 
that God hath made Him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus 
Whom ye crucified." 

Thus on the day of Pentecost Peter was proclaiming 
the Lordship of Christ. Confronting blind belief, and 
flippant skepticism, and idle curiosity, and surging sorrow, 
and blinding sin, and masterful passion, and everything 
else, he said "Jesus Is Lord." That was the first note. 
The evangelist, therefore, has first to confront this age 
and say to It, There is one King, one Lord, one Master, 
one seat of authority, one tribunal to which men may 
make their appeal. One Who upholds in His hands the 
balance of justice, from Whose verdict there can be no 
appeal, and Who is at this moment the Lord Jesus Christ. 

16 BVANGBLISM, 

This is not a small theme. Start in to preach that, 
and you will find you will not finish it next Sunday morn- 
ing; no, nor in a month's sermons. Buddha and Confucius 
will have a great rest, and Browning and Tennyson and 
all the others with their rush lights will not allure you 
from the great essential light, the Lordship of Jesus 
Christ. 

We have not merely to claim that Jesus is Lord, but we 
have to demonstrate that He is Lord. We have to show 
to this age in the light of a new century, with all its 
advance, and progress, and civilization, that Jesus Christ 
is Lord not merely because God has appointed Him King 
— though that is true — ^but because of His inherent roy- 
alty. God did not appoint Jesus to Kingship capriciously. 
He appointed Him to Kingship because He is King in 
the very fiber of His nature, in the very fact of His per- 
sonality. We challenge the world today, and we say 
that the Jesus of the New Testament, the Jesus of the 
virgin birth, the virtuous life, the vicarious dying, and the 
victorious resurrection, stands amid this age, with all its 
fierce light, its boasted civilization, and its new psychol- 
ogy, facile princepSj the crowned Lord because of the 
supernal glory of His own character. 

But you tell me that these things are not authentic, that 
you have abandoned the Gospel of John, that Matthew and 
Mark and Luke are not to be trusted, and that in all prob- 
ability that Man never existed. Very well. Then my 
business is to find the man who imagined this Man, for 

THB BVANGBL. Vt 

the man who imagined Him must be as great as the Man 
imagined. You do not get away from the Person revealed 
when you think you have done away with the books. 
He stands out in the midst of this age, our Master and 
Lord, and there never has been one Hke Him. And you 
and I have to tell men to test all sides of their nature 
by Jesus Christ. They have to bring up to His royalty 
their intellect, their emotion, their will. They have to 
test their creed, their character, their conduct by Him. 
He has moved into this new century with all its electric 
gaudiness, with the supernal loveliness of the King of 
men. And no man dare come into the presence of the 
Man of Nazareth revealed in the Gospels, and say, I 
am mightier or better than Thou, or, I know more than 
Thou knowest, O Man of Nazareth. He is the Lord of 
men, and our business is to proclaim it, to insist upon it, 
to die for it if need be. 

But if you stop there you are not preaching the Gospel. 
See what follows. If Jesus is indeed preached as Lord, 
there must always be as the issue of it an application of the 
truth to individual needs. No man ever yet stood searched 
by the light of that revelation of life without having to 
bow his head with shame, and say, I am a sinner. To 
preach the living Lordship of Christ is to create the ne- 
cessity for His Cross. Do we sufficiently realize this? 

If I said that the first note of the evangel is the Lord- 
ship of Christ, I am quite willing to grant that the heart 
of the evangel is the Cross. This age is peculiarly char- 

18 EVANGELISM. 

acterized by a loose sense of sin amongst men. We Have 
today to preach to people who are not really willing to 
admit that they are sinners: pleasant, refined, cultured 
people, whom we hardly feel inclined to tell that they are 
sinners, and who, if we did, would not feel quite like be- 
lieving it. There are people who will never have any 
consciousness of sin as long as we keep them at Mount 
Sinai. But there is not a man but that, if you bring him 
into the presence of Jesus Christ, and say That is your 
King, His law is your standard, His realization of life 
is your ideal, will go down in the presence of that and 
will say, I am a sinner. I have the profoundest sympathy 
for the young man in the Gospel who said, '*'A11 these 
things have I kept from my youth up." I was born in 
a Christian family, and through that gracious fact — never 
to be undervalued — was strangely and wonderfully de- 
livered from many of the more vulgar methods of sin, 
and I want to say to you, in all honesty, and all sincerity, 
I never trembled when I heard the law of Moses. But 
when I came into the presence of the radiant loveliness of 
Christ, when I heard his teaching, when I saw His per- 
section, then I said, If that is what I ought to be, O my 
God, how have I sinned! I stand in the presence of an 
external ethical code such as that of Moses, and I do not 
tremble. But whenever I come near the Incarnate Purity, 
into the presence of the Incarnate Love, I am ashamed, 
debased, bowed in the dust. Brethren, we must preach 
Christ as Lord, and there will come to our people a sense 

THB BVANGBL. 19 

of sin, a consciousness of inability, of failure, of break- 
down. There is no other way of bringing men into this 
consciousness. 

Then, thank God, we have the next note of the evangel. 
Oh, how shall we tell it? May God keep us living so 
near to it that it shall always be to us an element of as- 
tonishment! 

" Were the whole realm of Nature mine, 
That were a present far too small, 
Love so amazing, so Divine, 
Demands my life, my soul, my all." 

'Xove so amazing!" Are we amazed at that Love? 
Are we astonished at that Love? Think of it, that ideally 
perfect One, that infinite Lord and Master, went down 
to death. If you are only preaching His Lordship, that 
is not enough. If all you have to preach to men is His 
example, that is not enough. Unless there is all that the 
New Testament claims there is in that death, then that 
death is the severest reflection upon the goodness of God 
that the world has ever seen. Unless there is a meaning in 
it, such as the New Testament declares to be in it, then 
in the presence of the Cross, I lose my faith in God. 
If death is simply the tragic ending of so beautiful a life, 
and nothing more, then God has done nothing when He 
ought to have done something. But v/hen I take the 
New Testament, and see what Christ says about His 
own death, and what the inspired writers of the New 

20 BVANGBLISM. 

Testament say, and when there comes superadded to the 
Christ's estimate and the estimate of the apostles, the 
answer of my heart to the inner meaning of the Cross, 
then I know that the Cross is the heart and center of a 
great evangel. We are to tell men we fail, but the One 
Who never failed took our place. You cannot get away 
from the words vicarious atonement. The Cross is su- 
premely the heart and center of our great evangel. But 
I am told today that there are men so cultured and refined 
that they do not care to talk about blood; men who cut 
out from the singing of the Church such hymns as, 
*'There is a fountain filled with blood," who object to 
sing, 

" Not all the blood of beasts." 

Why do you object to those things? You say they lack 
refinement? Refinement! Do you go to the Cross for 
refinement? You go to the Cross to see what sin is. 
Is blood objectionable? Of course it is. Is the brutal 
murder of a perfect man awful? Certainly it is. But 
why was it necessary? Because of sin. Sin is not re- 
fined, and I come to the Cross to know the meaning of my 
own sin. I find my sin when I stand in the presence of 
the light of the Cross. But I never know its meaning 
until I see the Lord Christ crucified. Certainly there 
is no refinement in it. We must get back to the Cross to 
know all its ruggedness, to know all its brutality, its 
blood-baptism. It is only there that the heart finds the 

THB BVANGEL. 21 

conscience cleaned. I am going to put this superlatively. 
I am talking out of my deepest conviction when I say 
that if God would forgive me without the Cross then 
I never can be satisfied with His forgiveness. My own 
conscience is not at rest. There is that sin in the past, 
and if God says, I will forgive on the basis of pity, that 
is not enough, for it is there still. But when God says 
to me, It is not there, He, the Son of My love took it. 
He in Whom was no sin, was made sin, and in the 
passion of His death, in the agony of His baptism, in 
the blood of the brutal Cross, all of which had no place 
in His life. He was dealing with your sin, then my heart 
begins its song, the song that will never end while eter- 
nity lasts. My conscience demands this Cross, and God 
answers that deepest human consciousness of mine, which 
He Himself had made. We must be very suspicious of 
any new evangel that has no Cross in it. 

There is yet another thing, and I am trying to trace 
them as they come in the order of experience. A man 
stands erect until he sees the vision of the Lord Jesus 
Christ, and then he is afraid until he sees the value of 
the Cross of Christ, and he says, I am a sinner forgiven. 
Now what else? I have to live in the same place, in the 
midst of circumstances against me, suffering the same 
temptations, still within the midst of forces which will 
entice me to sin, though I am forgiven. Then we must 
preach the value of the resurrection, that He "brought 
life and immortality to light,*' that men may have life, 

22 BVANGBLISM, 

not merely eternal life, but life as a force and virtue, 
a power and possibility in the life. I like my Lord's 
words better than any other, "I came that they may have 
life, and may have it abundantly…I lay down 
My life for the sheep" and if I **lay it down," I will 
"take it again." And that is what He did. He laid 
it down in death, and took it again in resurrection. 
If righteousness is imputed to me because He died for 
me, holiness and a new righteousness are imparted to 
me because He lives in me. And that is the great mes- 
sage we have to bear to men today. There are thousands 
of men who will hardly thank you for the doctrine of 
forgiveness unless you can tell them there is salvation 
from the slavery of sin. 

And yet once again. A man will say, I saw the vision, 
and I knew I was a sinner. I have received the value 
and am forgiven by the Cross. There has been imparted 
to me its virtues, and I am enabled to do the things I 
could not do. But what other forces are there? Must 
I fight this battle alone? And there comes the crowning 
declaration of the evangel, never to be put off as a second 
subject, as a second blessing, or anything else. Right 
here in line is the coming to man of Jesus by the Holy 
Spirit, that Spirit to be the Paraclete, the Advocate, the 
One Who in the life is the dynamic, the force that shall 
produce the coming victory in the man. 

What then shall I say to the men to whom I preach 
the evangel? One thing only, Submit to the Lord Christ. 

TBB BVANGBL. 23 

And if a man do that what then? Then the Lord Christ 
by the Holy Spirit will make over to him the value of 
His dying, will communicate to him the virtue of His 
living, will pour into him the victory of the indwelling 
Spirit. These three things are the necessary consequence 
of the submission of life to His Lordship. Men will 
not be saved by understanding the atonement. Men will 
not be saved by explaining the mystery of resurrection. 
Men will not be saved by explanation of the mystery of 
how the Spirit comes. They will just be saVed by yield- 
ing to the Lord Christ. In the moment of yielding, He 
makes over to them all the virtues and values. 

I have attempted to speak of the New Testament 
evangel. Let me close by saying, the evangel is the 
only one that meets the essential needs of human na- 
ture in any age. It is ageless. You cannot say it is 
old or new. It must be zealously guarded from addition 
or subtraction. To add conditions to the evangel of 
the New Testament, or to curtail it, is to make it value- 
less and vicious. 

To deprive the evangel of any note is to make it in- 
operative. If you are preaching an evangel with no 
vision of the Lord Christ, it is emasculated. If you are 
preaching an evangel without the value of His death, 
it is senemic. If you are preaching an evangel with no 
virtue in it, it is sentimental. If you are preaching 
an evangel with no victory, it is hopeless. 

If we have this great whole, the vision of the Lord, 

a4 nVANGULISM, 

the value of His cross, the virtue of His life, the vic- 
tory of His indwelling by the Spirit, you have yet to find 
me the city, the village, the nation, the people, the man, 
or the child, that will not have such good news as they 
are waiting for, and apart from which there can be no 
hope. 

EVANGELISM. 
11. 

THE CHURCH EVANGELISTIC. 

Evangelism apart f romthe,0iurch. is ■impossible. Cjirist 
was, and is the one Evangelist. He now fulfills His great 
Work of proclaiming the good tidings through His Body, 
which is the Church. In the four Gospels we have a 
picture of Christ, and at the opening of His second 
treatise Luke makes use of words which indicate for us 
the character of the Gospel narrative, and suggest that 
of the book of the Acts of the Apostles. "The former 
treatise I made, O Theophilus, concerning all that Jesus 
began both to do and to teach, until the day in which 
He was received up." That sentence reveals to us the 
character of the Gospel story. The "former treatise" 
is the story of the beginning of the doing and che teach- 
ing of Jesus. The latter is therefore by inference the 
story of the continuity of the doing and teaching of 
Christ. In the Gospel Jesus is seen — to use His own 
suggestive word — "straitened" until His baptism should 
be accomplished. In the book of the Acts of the Apostles 

25 

26 BVANGBLISM, 

the same Jesus is seen no longer straightened, for the 
passion-baptism is accomplished, and He risen, ascended, 
enthroned, has come into new relationship with men by 
the Holy Spirit, to continue His work through the Church 
by the Spirit. Consequently the evangel proclaimed by 
Christ in measure during His life, is proclaimed by 
Christ in fullness through the Church by the Holy Spirit 
in this age 

Evangelism apart from the Church is apart from Christ, 
and is therefore no evangelism. There can be no evan- 
gelism save that of Jesus Christ, and that can only be 
spoken by Christ Himself through His people by the 
Holy Spirit. Anything calling itself evangelism which 
is not the outcome of that new life of Christ, realized in 
the soul of men, and spoken through men by Christ, is not 
evangelism. 

Unattached and unauthorized evangelism, even by in- 
dividual members of the Church of Christ, is to say the 
least, unwise, and not the most fruitful of permanent 
results. I do not desire to criticize unkindly any move- 
ment that acts independently of the churches, although 
I do not hesitate to say that I have grave suspicion of 
everything that boasts that it is undenominational. I 
have a very great love for everything that is inter-de- 
nominational, which is quite another matter. But all 
unattached, freelance work, unauthorized and ungov- 
erned by the Church, is not the best work possible, and 
tends to disorder and confusion. We must hold to the 

THB CHURCH BVANGBIISTIC. 27 
very highest doctrine of the Church, or our evangelism 
V will be weak and one-sided. Believing therefore that the 
relation between the Church and evangelistic work is 
all important, we will carefully consider the Church as to 
its creation, its nature, and its purpose. 

The New Testament deals with the Church in two ways, 
as Catholic and as local; the whole Church of the Living 
God, and a church in any given locality. Sometimes 
I am asked what church I belong to. When I reply, I am 
a Catholic Churchman, I have seen people look sur- 
prised. Yet that is exactly what I am. Catholic means 
universal. The Catholic Church is the whole Church. 
Such a phrase as "Roman Catholic" constitutes an ab- 
surd contradiction of terms. If Catholic, then not Roman. 
If Roman only, then by no means Catholic. That is 
equally true of the term ''Anglican Catholic." 

The New Testament deals with the whole Church, but 
it also deals with the local church. The word Church 
is used sometimes of the whole Church of God, and some- 
times of a church in a given locality, as in Ephesus, in 
Corinth, in Thessalonica, in Philippi. 

So far as the records reveal, the Lord only twice in 
the course of His public ministry referred to the Church. 
He used the word Church once in its catholic sense, 
and once in its local sense, so that the general New 
Testament uses of the word harmonize with that of Christ. 

The first occasion was when Peter had made the su- 
preme confession of the Messiahship of Jesus, "Thou 

28 BVANGBLISM. 

art the Christ." At that parting of the ways the first 
half of our Lord's work was accomplished. He had 
taught a little group of men, the nucleus of His King- 
dom, that He was the Christ, the Anointed, the Messiah 
of God. And then He immediately commenced to teach 
them a new thing, to bring them into view of the path- 
way through which the Messiah should accomplish the 
purpose of God. He began to talk to them of the Cross, 
but before mentioning the Cross He said to Peter, ''Thou 
art Peter, and upon this rock I will build My Church; 
and the gates of Hades shall not prevail against it." 
That is a perfect, final, and all-inclusive declaration con- 
cerning the Church. First, "Upon this rock I will build 
My Church." Secondly, ''the gates of Hades shall not 
prevail against it," not one thing repeated, but two dis- 
tinct facts about the Church. I think we have too often 
read the passage as though the Lord said the same thing 
twice over. But if you follow the figure carefully, you 
will find that Jesus was absolute Master of metaphor. 
There was no blunder, and no intellectual inaccuracy in 
the figures He used. ''On this r_Qck," that is the declaration 
of the impregnable strength of His Church against the 
attacks fronT'without. ""I will build," that is an afiirma- 
tion of the certainty of its perfection and completion. 
But what follows? The same thing repeated in another 
form? By no means. "The gates of Hades shall not 
prevail against it." That does not mean that the ChurcK 
is impregnable against attack, but rather that she is 

THB CHURCH BVANGEHSTIC. 29 

unconquerable when she goes forth to attack. An at- 
tacking force ntfver carries its own gates up to besiege 
a city. If Hades is contemplating an attack upon the 
Church, it will not carry its gates with it. The idea 
is not that Hades will attack the Church, fentJiLat-ihe 
Church will attack Hades, and as she does so, the very 
gates of Hades will yield before her. 

Thus we have two declarations about the Church by 
the Master; she is built by Christ on the rock, and when 
she goes forth on the conquests of Christ, she conquers 
all intervening foes, and finally the last enemy, the very 
gates of Hades, shall yield to her. She shall conquer 
through life, through death, and unto the endless ages. 
/ That is the Church I belong to, the Church impregnable, 
unconquerable, marching out in perpetual triumph into 
the ages beyond. That is Christ's estimate of the Church. 
On a subsequent occasion Jesus mentions the Church 
again, "If thy brother sin against thee, go, show him his 
fault between thee and him alone; if he hear thee, thou 
hast gained thy brother. But if he hear thee not, take 
thee one or two more, that at the mouth of two witnesses, 
or three, every word may be established. And if he refuse 
to hear them, tell it unto the vchui:pii; and if he refuse 
to hear the church also, let him be unto thee as the Gen- 
tile and the publican." That is the church local. It is 
impossible to tell to the whole catholic Church anything 
between your brother and yourself; but it can be told 
and it ought to be told to the local church if that brother 

30 nVANGBLISM. 

is refusing to listen* It is a perfect picture of the church's 
discipline. The church is to be so constituted, a fellow- 
ship of souls in Christ, that the wrong doing of one is 
felt by, and affects the whole; and the purity of the en- 
tire Church must be maintained, even at the cost of the 
excommunication of a brother who persists in wrong 
doing. 

Thus we learn from the words of Jesus, that the 
Church is the building of Christ on the rock, that the 
Church is the aggressive force which Christ leads to 
ultimate victory, that the Church within herself is a 
fellowship exercising discipline, caring for her own in- 
ternal life, and able to exercise final and Divine authority 
in the case of all those in membership. These things are 
true of the catholic Church, and also of the local Church. 

From these first uses of the word in the New Testa- 
ment it is at once seen that the local church is a model 

of the catholic Chyrch, that all the truths concerning the 
catholic Church are true in measure and in degree of 
the local church, and if we would understand what the 
function and the force of the local church is, we shall 
have to attempt to get a vision of the function and the 
force of the catholic Church. 

Now as I pass from these words of Jesus, one or two 
words concerning the use of the word in the Acts of 
the Apostles will be in order. In the second chapter of 
the Acts of the Apostles, and the forty-seventh verse, 
"And the Lord added to them day by day those that 

run CHURCH BVANGBLISTIC. 31 

were saved," the word church is inserted in King James' 
Version, It is not in the original text. Its introduction 
is of the nature of exposition, and translators almost in- 
variably break down when they attempt exposition. The 
statement there is that, "the Lord added together them 
that were being saved," and the translators thought it 
must be ''added to the Church." Seeing the word Church 
was not there in the original, the English and American 
revisers altered it, and put "added to them," that is, to 
the disciples. That also is only true in a secondary sense. 
The thought is that He added them to Himself. Of course 
it is true that when He adds a man to Himself, He adds 
him to the Church. 

Through the Acts of the Apostles the word Church is 
used sometimes of the catholic and sometimes of the 
local church, and the local is always treated as a part 
and model of the catholic. The actual word ecclesia 
is used of the congregation of Israel in the wilder- 
ness once. In the nineteenth chapter the word is used 
in the purely Greek sense, "Some therefore cried one 
thing, and some another: for the assembly was in con- 
fusion.…But if ye seek anything about other 
matters, it shall be settled in the regular assembly. 
. .. When he had thus spoken, he dismissed the as- 
sembly f That word assembly is ecclesia. I am not 
suggesting that the translation is improper. I think it 
is wise that the word assembly is used on this occasion. 
What was the assem.bly here referred to? It was the 

32 BVANGELISM. 

gathering together of the members of one particular 
trade. It is the first record we have, so far as I know, 
of a trade union meeting, and the word assembly indi- 
cates the truth. The reference is not to the great pro- 
miscuous crowd which was congregated to see what 
was going on, but that particular and select number, 
bound together by a common purpose under a common 
impulse. The Greek word is there used in its simplest 
form. It means a called out assembly. It is the as- 
sembly of the silversmiths, and it is the assembly of the 
town government. That is the word ecclesia, in its 
simple etymological intention. 

That word has been taken hold of by the Christian 
fact, and has become the great word for the Church. 
And it means very simply, an assembly of people, called 
out, selected from the rest. In the letter to the Ephe- 
sians we have a picture of the Church in these wonderful 
words, ''There is one body, and one Spirit, even as also 
ye were canes' in one hope of your calling; one Lord, 
one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all. Who is 
over all, and through all, and in all." There is nothing 
in all the New Testament that is more wonderful in 
its revelation of the nature of the true Church. Notice 
first the apostle describes the Church, as ''one body." 
What is the body? Christ and every believer. Not the 
believers without Christ. The body includes the Head. 
Of course if we speak of the Head and the body, then 
for the single moment we mean by the body, all ex- 

THB CHURCH BVANGBLISTIC. 33 

cept the Head; but in the statement "there is one body," 
in this passage the apostle is taking in the whole fact, 
Christ Who is the Head, and all members. "One Spirit," 
that is the life of the one body, the intelligence of the 
one body, the emotion of the one body, the will of the 
one body. "He that is joined to the Lord is one Spirit," 
so that the whole body of the Church is one with the 
Head, and the Head is one with the body, and that one 
unifying Spirit of God, in Christ and in all believers, 
creates the one body. One dominating life that of the 
Spirit, in Christ and in the believer, unifying Christ and 
the believer, and all believers with each other, because 
all are united to Christ. 

"One body, and one Spirit, even as also ye were 
called in one hope of your calling," that is to say, there 
is one calling for Christ and the believer, for the whole 
Church which is the body. In the former part of the 
epistle that calling is declared to be that of showing to 
the ages to come the grace of God, and teaching the 
principalities and powers in the heavenlies the manifold 
wisdom of God. That will be the work of Christ and 
His people forever. 

One body, Christ and all the members. One Spirit, 
filling the whole body up to its last reach. One calling, 
the eternal calling of Christ in union with the Church, 
and the Church in union with Christ. This is a general 
statement concerning the organism, the life, the calling of 
the Church, 
c 

34 nVANGULISM, 

The apostle next shows how individual members be- 
come members of the Church, how the units enter this 
living unity. ''One Lord," the Object of faith; "one 
faith," set upon the one Lord; "one baptism," the bap- 
tism of the Holy Spirit, that unites the Faithful soul with 
the living Lord. That is the whole process. 

The first note in the evangel is that of the Lordship of 
Christ. Jesus is Lord by virtue of the splendor of 
His character, by virtue of the victory of His Cross, 
by virtue of the power of His resurrection. That "one 
Lord," is presented to the soul as the Object of faith. The 
answer of faith to the vision of the Lord is the whole 
of human responsibility. That is the "one faith." Its 
nature is that of believing on Him, or receiving Him as 
Lord. It is the act of the will in surrender. That act 
of faith is responded to by the "one baptism," that bap- 
tism of the Holy Spirit whereby the soul believing on 
the Lord is made a member of the Lord Himself. 

Thus the individual enters the Church. The one Lord 
is presented to him. He believes. The Spirit baptizes 
him, and he is a member. The human responsibility is 
belief, the Divine answer is the baptism of the Holy 
Spirit whereby that man is merged into the Christ life, 
and becomes a member of Jesus Christ. "One Lord, one 
faith, one baptism." 

Thus is He building His Church. Man cannot admit 
into the catholic Church. No one is admitted into the 
Church by water baptism, nor by vote of a church meet- 

THU CHURCH BVAN GBLI S T I C, 35 

ing, nor by the decision of a session. A person en- 
ters the Church when the Holy Spirit baptizes him into 
Christ. All the other things may be necessary in order 
that the discipline of the local church may be maintained. 
There ought to be solemn recognition of some kind when 
a man joins the outward and visible church, but all such 
matters are outward and visible,, recognitions of the in- 
ward and invisible facts. The (only condition on which 
any person should be admitted to a local church is that \ 
evidence is given of membership in the catholic Church 
by the baptism of the Holy Spirit. 

Once again, *'One God and Father of all, Who is over 
all, and through all, and in all." That is the last fact of 
the sevenfold unity. It indicates the glorious realization 
of the purpose and plan of God in His government of, 
operation through, and union with the ransomed society. 

This great Church of the firstborn is being built, and as 
yet man has never seen it. We see parts of it, but the scaf- 
folding is all about it yet; and sometimes it seems as 
though there were more scaffolding than Church. But 
when He comes, all the scaffolding will go; and the 
glorious Church of the firstborn, made up of ransomed 
souls baptized into the life of Christ, the great entity and 
unity through which God will manifest Himself to ages 
and to principalities, will be revealed in all its radiant 
splendor. 

Let us now think of the local church in the light of this. 
Every church is, as is the catholic Church, an assembly 

36 BVANGBLISM. 

of those submitted to the Lordship of Christ. That is 
liie gate, that is the entrance, that is the foundation fact. 
A local church is therefore an assembly of souls submit- 
ted to the Lordship of Christ. That does not tell all the 
story, but it gives the key to the whole truth. Every- 
thing else follows, and to understand that, let us go back 
to our evangel. The first note is that of the Lordship of 
Christ. Men submit to that Lordship by believing on 
Him. Then not only do they see the vision of the Lord, 
but share the value of His death, and the virtue of His 
life, and the victory of His presence. In the fifth chap- 
ter of Romans we see how these things are realized 
within the Church in the living members who are bap- 
tized into union with Christ. The tenth verse, "For if, 
while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God 
through the death of His Son, much more, being recon- 
ciled, shall we be saved in His life." The seventeenth 
verse, "For if, by the trespass of one, death reigned 
through the one; much more shall they that receive the 
abundance of grace of the gift of righteousness reign 
in life through the One." "Reconciled by His death," 
"reign in life." Now as an aid to memory let us take 
three words, reconciled, regenerate, regnant. These 
words mark the truth in the case of every individual be- 
liever. The individual believer submitted to the Lord- 
ship of Christ, is reconciled to God by the value of 
His death, regenerate by the virtue of His life commun- 

THB CHURCH BVANGBHSTIC. 37 

icated, regnant by the indwelling Christ through the 
Holy Spirit. 

Now believing that a church is an assembly of such 
persons, what results follow? Every church is intended 
to be within itself a manifestation of all the purposes and 
the facts of the Kingdom of God. A church is an as- 
sembly of persons, who in the power of the indwelling 
life of Christ, realizing__ the ideals of Je sus, obey th^ 
teaching of Jesus, and take part in the activities of Jesus. 
It is here where perhaps the Church has most sadly failed 
in the past, and where the failure of the Church today 
is most apparent. We have too largely looked upon the 
negative side, which has to do almost exclusively with 
such facts as constitute the saving of the individual from 
sin, and from punishment. These are most important 
facts. But the great society of God, vitally one, essen- 
tially one, socially one, aggressively one, where is it at 
the present hour? The Church ought to be a society 
accepting the ideals of Jesus, and realizing them in the 
power of His life; consequently a society of people obey- 
ing the moral code of Jesus, and therefore a society of 
people manifesting to the world the breadth and beauty 
and beneficence of the Kingship of God in and through 
Jesus Christ, Is that what the Church is? That is what 
the Church ought to b)e, for that is the Divine intention. 

But someone will ^y. What has..all±bis.to do with.the— ^ 
evangelistic Church. And the very fact of the question 
reveals the weakness of the hour. The Church has 

38 BVANGBLISM. 

largely failed in evangelism because the Church has not 
realized within her own borders the force of her own life. 
We ask how is it that the masses refuse to listen to 
her evangel, and are treating her in so marked a degree, 
with contempt? Because the masses see perfectly well 
that she is not obedient to her own Master's ideals, and 
does not realize His purpose. That is the severest crit- 
icism, and it ought to make us blush, and hide our heads 
with shame, that/'^he Church is not fulfilling her Mas- 
^ter's ideals. The evangelistic Church is the Church which 
shares Christ's life, and in the power of it obeys His 
law, and thus manifests Him to the world. Thus alone 
can the Church engage in His work, and carry out His 
enterprises. When the Church realizes and manifests her 
Lord, in her personal membership, and corporate capacity, 
then, and then only is she doing His work, the work of 
seeking and saving the lost. That is the evangelistic 
Church, and that is the true Church of Jesus Christ. 

The purposQ of the Church is certainly that of con- 
serving the life of the saints, but this only in order 
that every saint, and all the saints, may be strong for 
carrying out the purposes and the work of Jesus Christ. 
"Ye_ shall be My witnesses," not witnesses as talkers 
merely, but evidences, credentials,jlemonstratipns, proofs 
among men. The only Church which is truly evangelistic 
is the Church which realizes within her own borders all 
the will of her Lord and Master Jesus Christ. 

Strength of spiritual life always issues in the mani- 

THB CHURCH BVANGBIISTIC. 39 

festation through the Church to the world of the facts of 
the Kingship of God in Christ, and the power of Jesus 
Christ to deal with all the things in human life that are 
contrary to the mind and will of God. The_Church is to 
be aggressive, capturing men, fighting against wrong, 
urging everywhere and always the claims of Jesus Christ, 
and this she can only be as within her own borders there 
is realized the purposes of God. 

In conclusion, the evangelical Chiirch is necessarily 
evangelistic. There are some things so patent they ought 
not to need stating. Yet there seems to be a prevalent 
idea that it is possible for a church to be evangelical 
and not evangelistic. It is not possible. A friend of 
mine in the ministry, a man of whose scholarship and 
whose devotion there can be no doubt, talking to me 
about evangej^tic work, accounting for his own lack of 
interest said, *'Well I am profoundly evangelical, but I am 
by no means evangelistic." There would seem to be 
many who take that view. Let me say to you, my breth- 
ren, that this is an absurd contradiction of terms. No 
man is truly evangelical unless he is evangelistic also. 
What did my friend mean? He meant that he held 
the evangelical doctrines of our holy faith, but he was 
not interested in the specific work of winning men to 
Christ. Now what are the foundation doctrines of our 
holy faith? Evangelical faith affirms the death of Christ 
was rendered necessary by the ruin of the race, and that 
it is God's provision for man's salvation. It moreover 

} 

40 BVANGBLISM. 

declares that His life is at the disposal of men for their 
new life of holiness. Are we evangelical? Do we be- 
lieve that Jesus died in order that He might save men? If 
not, then we cannot claim to be evangelical. But if we 
do, can we seriously assert that holding the doctrines, we 
are yet content to do nothing for the men for whom 
Christ died? Knowing that we have the deposit of truth, 
the great evangel, equal to the salvation of men, are we 
careless about making it known? 

Some times one reads an advertisement which declares 
a sure and certain cure for cancer has been discovered. 
A man so advertising is wholly despicable. In the first 
place because the assertion is a lie, but secondly because 
if it is true, he is a rogue to hold for purposes of per- 
sonal gain a secret which should immediately be given to 
the world for the cure of that awful disease. And a 
man tells me he is evangelical, he holds the truth about 
salvation, and is thankful to God for the salvation of 
his own poor miserable soul. I deny it. If the Cross of 
Christ in his own life has meant deliverance, cleansing, 
purity, that consciousness will drive any man out into 
evangelistic work and effort. 

Evangelism demands a Church, and wherever the 
Church of Jesus Christ is, there is an instrument for 
evangelistic work, because there is a company of men 
and women in whom the evangel has won its victory, 
and through whom it is manifested as a life, and pro- 
claimed as a message. 

THB CHURCH BVAN GBLI ST I C. 41 

Let me say to all ministers, you will find you must have 
your church act with you if you are going to do any 
evangelistic work. And to church members, it is no use 
wasting breath in the criticism of a minister because 
he is not doing evangelistic work. Let the Church fall 
into line. One of the first missions of the ministry will 
be to bring his church into sympathy, and that will often 
need a great deal of common sense and patience. 

No church ought to be allowed to exist that has not 
added to its membership by confession of faith. If a 
church is existing only by letters of transfer, it is time 
the doors were closed, and ''Ichabod, the glory of the 
Lord has departed" was inscribed across them. 

This evangelism must begin in the churches. The 
churches themselves must be turned back to the work 
of evangelism. We are trusting too much to organiza- 
tions outside the Church. It is in the Church the work 
must be done. We shall have to travail in birth for the 
souls of our own people. When in our own church life 
all the forces of the Christ life are operative without hind- 
rance, then men will be brought under the sound and 
power of the great and glorious evangel. May God 
make all our churches, churches after the pattern of 
the catholic Church, "one body, one Spirit, one calling," 
and "God over, through, in all," moving to His purpose, 
accomplishing that purpose through the Spirit of Jesus 
Christ. 

EVANGELISM. 
III. 

THE EVANGELIST. 

The doctrine of New Testament ministry lies wholly 
within that of the Church. The ministry serves the 
Church under the Lordship of Christ. That is not to 
say that ministers are servants of the Church in the 
sense of obeying the Church. They do serve the Church 
butthey obey the Lord Christ. From that statement 
two initial truths are to be deduced and remembered: 
First, the ministry has no right to lord it over God's 
heritage; and secondly, God's heritage has no right to 
lord it over the ministry. I have of set purpose used 
Peter's phrase. Writing to the elders and the bishops 
he says, "neither lording it over the charge allotted to 
you." The word "charge" there is kleros, the word from 
which we derive our word clergy. According to Peter, 
the whole Church was the clergy, and bishops were men 
who were to serve the clergy, and not lord it over thern. 
Every believer is in the priesthood, and the whole Church 
is the clergy, and yet within the whole Church there is a 
distinct ministry. 

42 

THB BVANGBLIST. 43 

Our present subject is concerned principally with that 
section of the Christian ministry indicated by the word 
evangelist. But in order properly to understand the 
function of the evangelist we must take time to set that 
particular aspect of the ministry in relation to the whole. 
There is too often a measure of friction between the 
evangelist and those who are exercising other gifts of 
the ministry, and this friction acts in two ways. Pastors 
and teachers sometimes entertain a feeling almost 
amounting to contempt for evangelists. The evangel- 
ist on the other hand, very often manifests a contempt 
for pastor and teacher. Now this is all utterly false; 
contrary to the spirit of the New Testament, contrary to 
the spirit of love, contrary to the spirit of wisdom, con- 
trary to the Spirit of God. If we may but see the inter- 
relationship of these gifts, that a man is in the ministry, 
not by his own choice, but by the choice of the Holy 
Spirit, and that the work of each is not contradictory 
to the work of the rest, but complementary rather, then 
we shall be a long way towards understanding the true 
place of the evangelist, and making for him his proper 
place in the work of the Church of Jesus Christ. 

^'He gave some apostles, and some prophets, and some 
evangelists, and some pastors and teachers, for the per- 
fecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry." This 
is the reading of the King James Version, and we have 
interpreted it as though these gifts were bestowed in 
order that those receiving them might perfect the saints, 

44 BVANGBLISM. 

and do the work of the ministry. As a matter of fact 
what the apostle meant was that these gifts are bestowed 
on men in the Church, in order that they may by their 
ministry perfect the Church, so that the Church may do 
the work of the ministry. The fullest fact of ministry 
includes the whole Church, and the men within it who 
have received special gifts, have received them in order 
that the}^ may perfect the Church to its work of ministry. 
The translation of the Revisers makes this much more 
clear, "He gave some apostles; and some, prophets; and 
some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers; for the 
perfecting of the saints, unto the work of ministering.' 
"He gave some apostles." The specific work of the 
apostles was the perfecting of the doctrine, the funda- 
mental basis of teaching. "He gave some, prophets." 
The work of the prophet was the perfecting of the forth- 
telling, the declaration of the truth. "He gave some, 
evangelists." The work of the evangelist is the perfect- 
ing of the number of the Church by calling men into 
relationship with Christ. "He gave some, pastors and 
teachers." Their work lies wholly within the Church, 
a nd is that of perfecting the character of the me mbers 
of the Church in order that the wh ole Church may b e 
perfectly equipped for its ministry. These are the true 
orders of the Christian ministry. These are the fund- 
amental and spiritual orders, and we must recognize them 
if there is to be any fulfillment of the whole function of 
our ministry. 

THB nVANGULIST. 45 

But now let us enquire how a person in the Church 
becomes a minister within the Church. Let us turn to 
Corinthians, in the first letter, chapter twelve. Here we 
have a chapter that always ought to be read side by side 
with this fourth chapter of Ephesians, on the subject of 
Church order. In that chapter you will find that the 
apostle, beginning a section concerning the spirituali- 
ties, deals first with the Lordship of Jesus, and then with 
the ministry of the Spirit of God, and as a sub-section 
thereof, with the gifts bestowed by the Spirit. He is 
dealing with gifts far larger than those of the ministry 
to which he refers in Ephesians. In the course of his 
argument he makes a statement of vital importance, that 
the Spirit bestows these gifts upon ''each one severally 
even as He will." In Ephesians the same principle is de- 
clared, that ''He gave some, apostles; He gave some, 
prophets; He gave some, evangelists; He gave some, 
pastors and teachers." The whole emphasis of the truth 
is that capacity for ministry in any form is a gift, and 
it is a gift bestowed by the Head of the Church through 
the Holy Spirit according to His own pleasure. There- 
fore no man can choose to be a minister of Jesus Christ, 
as any man may choose the profession of medicine, or 
of law. No man ever really enters the Christian min- 
istry in the deep spiritual sense of the term, save as he 
receives a gift from the Head of the Church by the 
Holy Spirit which perfectly equips him for the work 
he has to do. 

46 BVANCBLISM. 

We are hearing a great deal in these days of the dearth 
of men entering our theological seminaries. I have been 
asked if I would not urge upon young men that they 
should give themselves to the ministry, urge them to 
adopt the ministry as a calling in life which is high, and 
holy, and beautiful. And my reply always is, I dare not 
urge any man. No man can enter the ministry of his 
own will and choice. The only way in which a man 
can possibly enter the ministry is when the Holy Spirit 
of God bestows upon him a gift from the Head of the 
Church. By that gift he is made a minister of Jesus 
Christ. Nothing short of that makes a minister, and that 
being so, nothing can prevent his being a minister, except 
his own disobedience to the heavenly calling. I would 
very solemnly urge young men to consider well whether 
or not they have not had the gift and the calling, and 
are refusing it. Has there come upon your soul some- 
where, somewhen, a barning passion to preach the Word, 
a great constraint, a sure conviction that you can preach 
it; and have you allowed some secular calling, some ma- 
terial advantage to persuade you that you can still be a 
good Christian and make money? It is at the peril 
of your soul you stay there. If once the gift is bestowed 
then "woe" is that man if he "preach not the Gospel." 

Notice m the next place that these gifts refer to spe- 
cial spiritual qualifications for the doing of special spir- 
itual service. What is a gift bestowed upon a man? 
What is the gift of the apostle, the gift of the prophet, 

THB BVANGBLIST. 47 

the gift of the evangelist, the gift of the pastor and 
teacher? I do not mean what is the specific vahie or the 
distinction between these, but what is the underlying 
quality in each? What is a^^jift? The gifts are certainly 
not such as may be designated natural endowments. 
They are spiritual quantities and qualities, besto^yed for 
the doing of spiritual work. A man receives the gift of 
an apostle. Then in him there is a spiritual force, a 
spiritual vision, a spiritual fitness that his brethren have 
not, which fits him for doing a distinctly spiritual work, 
the work of the apostolate. So with all of them. Xi^ 
gift is a spiritual qualification. 

But while it is true that the gift is bestowed, and is 
not merely a natural endowment, it is also perfectly cer- 
tain that the Spirit of God never bestows a spiritual gift 
for service except upon men who have natural endow- 
ments that will enable them to use it. There is nothing 
m the economy of God out of joint and out of place. 
There is perfect harmony between God's first creation and 
the bestowment of special spiritual gifts. The new birth 
does not mean the death of everything essential and noble 
in the first birth, but its life. So also when God bestows 
the gift of the apostle, or the prophet, or the evangel- 
ist, or the pastor and teacher upon a man, the gift will 
be bestowed upon men who have natural aptitudes and 
fitness and endowments for their work. A young man 
in my church telfs me God has called him to preach. 
Then I immediately give him opportunities to preach. 

48 BVANGBLISM. 

I find him an occasion in the Mission Hall, or in a cot- 
tage; and in oversight with me there will be my brethren 
in the diaconate, and they will hear him, not critically, 
but with the solicitude of a great and passionate desire 
to help him. And if after a little while we find that the 
man has no natural endowment I would say to him in 
love and in all honesty. My friend, you have evidently 
made a mistake. God has never called you to preach, 
or you would be able to preach. 

We have been making the terrible mistake of putting 
a man through the theological seminary, and when he has 
completed his course we find, and he finds that he is not 
a preacher, and so he writes essays to the end of time. 
Essays are excellent things, but the writing and reading 
of them is not preaching. We must find the men with 
natural endowments and the spiritual gifts. If a man 
has that twofold equipment, and is responsive to the 
heavenly vision, you cannot stop him preaching, and you 
cannot stop his preaching with power. The gift is a 
spiritual quantity and quality, bestowed upon a man hav- 
ing natural endowments. The gift of the pastor and 
teacher will be a spiritual quality of appreciation of truth 
bestowed upon a man who is a born teacher and a born 
shepherd. The gift of the prophet will be an apprecia- 
tion of truth in its application to the needs of his age, 
bestowed upon a man, who if he is not a preacher must 
be a speaker somewhere or other. It is affirmed that men 
with absolutely no gift of speech, receiving the spiritual 

THB BVANGBIIST. 49 

gift have become great preachers. Personally I have 
never known such a case. I was told in England some 
years ago by a dear man who held very strongly that 
all spiritual power in service was spiritual merely, that 
there was no connection between man's natural capacity 
and the spiritual gift, and the instance cited was D. L. 
Moody, and I was told he had no natural gifts of ora- 
tory, that everything he had was the spiritual equipment. 
I am not undervaluing the spiritual equipment, but if 
D. ly. Moody had gone into politics instead of preach- 
ing, you would have found that he would have swayed 
vast audiences, and that he was a man of natuial endow- 
ment. A gift' is a spiritual quantity and quality be- 
stowed by the Head of the Church at His own will 
through the Holy Spirit upon those who are naturally 
endowed to receive it. That is the fundamental truth 
concerning the vocation and the force and the power of 
the Christian ministry. 

Let us now notice the inter-relation of these gifts. 
/^ The apostle was the first messenger. The work of the 
apostle consisted in the proclaiming of truth first, and 
then in the committal to sacred writings of the truth. 
It is written in the Acts of the Apostles that the early 
disciples "continued steadfastly in the apostles' teach- 
ing." In that phrase we have the indication of one part 
of the work of the apostolate. I am inclined to say 
the gift of the apostolate is still conferred under cer- 
tain circumstances for specific work. At the birth of 

so BVANGBLISM. 

all great missionary movements there has been an apostle, 
a first messenger, one with a specific gift to go forth 
and tell at the beginning the doctrines of the Way. 

Then we have the work of the prophet. The peculiar 
and distinctive note of prophetic utterance is that a man 
who is a prophet foretells the truth from God without any 
reference to the pleasure or anger of the people. This 
is the prophetic note. You find it in the old prophecies. 
"Whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear." 
The prophet is not an evangelist. The prophet does not 
come down into personal dealing, and constraint of in- 
dividual lives. The prophet is a man whose voice is 
lifted in an age, pouring out truth, compelling the age 
at least to hear it. Whether it will obey or not is not his 
responsibility. That is the characteristic note of the 
prophet in all dispensations. And God has never been 
without prophets in this Christian era. 

The evangelist is a name signifying a man who tells 
the glad tidings always with a view to constraining the 
man who listens by the evangel, to that of which the 
evangel bears testimony. I am inclined to think that 
the opportunity of the evangelist is today often made by 
the prophet; that in prophetic utterances and prophetic 
ministry there is an arousing of conscience and inquiry, 
and to that the evangelist comes with his personal and 
individual message of the Lordship of Christ; the value 
of His Cross; the virtue of His resurrection; and the 
glorious victory of His indwelling. And the evangel- 

THB BVANGBLIST. 51 

ist is therefore the one who in the name of the Church 
tells men and women outside how they may come inside, 
declares the glorious glad news of the infinite Gospel. 

As in response to the message of the evangel, men 
crowd to the Christ, owning Him Lord, receiving the 
value of His death, the virtue of His life, the assurance 
of victory, then the pastor and teacher begins to teach 
them, and train them, and to watch over them. There 
are two words that mark the work of the pastor and 
teacher; overseer, and pastor. He is one who watches, 
and feeds the flock of God. John Milton, when speaking 
of false pastors, and their failure in the ministry de- 
scribes them in a most remarkable phrase. He speaks 
of them as "blind mouths." And he says, "The hungry 
sheep look up, and are not fed." It is a terrible indict- 
ment, and that because it is scriptural. It appears a 
contradiction in terms, "blind mouths." It is not so, 
for as Ruskin points out, Milton brought together the 
two facts in the work of the pastor and teacher. His 
first work is to watch over the flock, but Milton says he 
is "blind." His second work is to feed the sheep, but 
Milton says instead of doing that he is trying to be fed 
himself, he is a "mouth." 

Let no evangelist think that the pastor and teacher who 
year by year patiently feeds the flock is not doing God's 
work because he is not doing that of the evangelist. 
And let no pastor and teacher think that the men passing 
over the country like a flame of fire, proclaiming salvation 

52 BVANGBLISM. 

and constraining men to acceptance, are sensational 
merely. 

Oh this great Church of Jesus Christ, if we could 
only realize it, with its great gifts; the apostle, the first 
messenger to the new region; the prophet, the perpetual 
voice proclaiming truth, the evangelist, the perpetual voice 
calling men to the Christ, the pastor and teacher, in- 
structing, leading, guiding, and culturing the saints. 

But I must leave that larger outlook. I have at least 
said enough to show the place of the evangelist, and to 
show there is no antagonism between the work of the 
different orders. I once heard W. L. Watkinson, one of 
the most wonderful preachers in England today, with 
a marvelous gift of sanctified satire, say in a great con- 
gregation of ministers, "The pity is we do not understand 
each other." He continued, "I go to one man in the reg- 
ular pastorate, and I say to him, 'What do you think of 
these special men' and he replies with a curl of his lip, 
'Sensation.' " And then I come to a special man and I 
say to him, "What do you think of that quiet man down 
there' and he says, 'Oh, stagnation !' " And that tells 
the truth of the attitude too often indulged in against 
each other. In the light of this great truth of the com- 
plementary nature of the gifts we ought to recognize the 
fact that every man in the ministry, while he will have 
one specific gift above all others, will yet have sympa- 
thy with all the rest, for I still believe that the Holy 
Spirit confers gifts of this order upon the Church, giv- 

THB BVANGBLIST. 53 

ing some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and 
teachers. Happy indeed is that church whose eccle- 
siastical order will allow it to make room for a man 
to exercise the gift God has bestowed, and unhappy is 
that Church who wants each of its ministers to be some- 
thing of a prophet, and something of an evangelist, and 
something of a pastor and teacher, and thus making him 
something of each, makes him the whole of nothing. We 
want room for the orderliness of the Spirit of God in 
our ecclesiastical arrangements. 

But now where this is established, and we see the inter- 
relation of these gifts, and how there is no conflict but 
perfect harmony where the whole Church and ministry 
is under thef dominance of the Spirit, we may turn to 
the specific gift of the evangelist. In the New Testa- 
ment only two men are definitely spoken of as evangel- 
ists. Phil ip is called an evangelist, and in the final charge 
of Paul to Timothy, he says "Fulfill thy ministry, do 
the work of an evangelist." It is at least significant 
that the two men who are called evangelists are in en- 
tirely different circumstances, and suggests as I think, 
the two types of the evangelist. Philip was a man^at 
large. He was not definitely in charge of any Church, 
nor was he, as I believe, set apart by any apostolic 
function to his work. He was an evangelist, prepared 
by the impartation of a qualification for telling the Gospel, 
to tell the Gospel. He moves from place to place. He 
goes to Samaria, then he speaks to the individual eunucK, 

54 nVANGBLISM. 

and is caught away to Azotus. Then we find him moving 
up through Caesarea, at last settHng down, his children 
coming up after him, and uttering the same great Gos- 
pel. That is one evangelist as I see him in the Acts of 
the Apostles. 

The other is a man, who is in oversight of the Church 
at Ephesus, placed in oversight through certain difficul- 
ties arising there, and the letter of the apostle is writ- 
ten to instruct him in his work. I am inclined to think 
that the more special work of Timothy was that of the 
evangelist, moving from place to place. But Paul saw 
the necessity of a certain oversight at Ephesus, and 
sent him there. And he writes to him of his charge, the 
church; and instructs him as to how he shall take over- 
sight; but the last thing the apostle urges is that he 
shall not forget that though he is now in oversight of the 
church through certain ecclesiastical difficulties, he is to 
fulfill his ministry, and do the work of an evangelist. 
It is at least significant that these two men are described 
by the term evangelist, the one moving from place to 
place, and the other settled in oversight of a church. 

Having simply referred to that by way of illustration, 
in order that we may understand that the evangelist 
m.ay be a man called to move from point to point, or. he 
may be a man placed by God in the oversight of a church, 
I want to speak of this gift itself. I have said of all 
these gifts that they are spiritual quantities and qualities. 
There is no specific description in the New Testament of 

THB BVANGBLIST. 55 

either of these gifts bestowed. We may however safely 
argue from the work the nature of the gift. A man who 
receives the /gift of the evangeHst is one to v/hom there 
is given a clear understanding of the evangel, a great 
passion in his heart results from the clear vision, a 
great optimism fills his soul, born of his confidence in 
the power of Christ to save every man; and growing 
out of that passion and that confidence a great con- 
straint seizes him to tell somebody, to tell everybody 
the glad news of salvation by Jesus Christ. Those pecu- 
liar qualities are not found in all men called to the 
ministry. Every man will have sympathy along these 
lines. There are however other forms of spiritual gifts, 
as we have seen. But where this is the all-consuming 
fire, there you have an evangelist. 

Granted that a man has the gift, on what line is he 
to be trained for the exercise thereof? He must be 
trained in theory and in practice, and the training of 
theory and practice must go side by side during the whole 
time of his preparation for the exercise of his gift. 
Wherever possible I would give a man the profoundest 
and fullest academic training possible, but I would put 
each theological seminary in, or not far from a great 
city, and I would send the theological, students down 
into the slums to teach and to preach. There are men 
advising us to save men by education, and the latest 
thing I hear suggested is salvation by psychology. This 
kind of suggestion is however, always confined to the- 

56 nVANGBLISM. 

ory and does not get beyond the book in which it is 
discussed. A good many books issue from the press 
which would never see the Hght if while the man was 
thinking out his problem he had to go into the slum 
district or suburban quarter for the definite business 
of saving men. 

A man must be trained, but the man who has this 
passion must exercise it, he must use it. A man who has 
this constraint must not be hindered from going out to ex- 
ercise the gift, or else the gift within him will burn 
down to cinders and ashes. 

While exercising his gift, let him be trained in every 
way. The evangelist ought to be a man, a whole man, a 
man who is to be a perfect instrument for that perfect 
Gospel he is called to preach. He is to train physically, to 
train mentally, and above everything else, to train spir- 
itually. We have no right to think that while all the 
other vocations of life, of the lawyer, of the doctor, of 
the business man, demand preparatory hard work and 
training, that we can successfully put untrained men 
into the work of the ministry. 

If God takes hold of a man He has called to the 
work, and it is really impossible for him to obtain 
training, and he becomes a veritable flame of fire, that 
is no reason why other men should shirk training, and 
slip carelessly into the work of the evangelist. The 
very magnificence of your Gospel, the very majesty 
of your work demands that you should take time, take 

THU BVANGBLIST. SI 

your whole being, and attempt to make it a fit instru- 
ment for the proclamation of the great Gospel. I would 
like to say a good deal about physical training. If a 
man is going to preach this evangel, he has no right to 
trifle with his physical powers. My body is to be the 
temple of the Holy Ghost, Who through me, will pro- 
claim this evangel, and I am to see to it so far as I am 
able, that in all its powers it is an instrument fit for the 
Master's work. 

And so with the mind. Ignorance is not a qualification 
for evangelism My dear young brother, are you look- 
ing forward to an evangelistic ministry? Then I plead 
with you, gird up the loins of your mind, and obtain 
all the knowledge possible. No single branch of knowl- 
edge is out of place to the man who is going to do the 
work of an evangelist. You may gather illustrations 
from all sciences, from all literature, and if you are only 
living close to the center, and close to Christ, you will 
see light gleaming and breaking everywhere. Don't 
hurry through training in order to do this work, but 
while the training goes on, let there be exercise al'. 
the while, and through the process you will gain in 
strength, and become presently an evangelist proclaim- 
ing the message with the vigor of physical strength, 
with the acumen of mental equipment, and with the 
dynamic of spiritual force. Such are the men for whom 
the world waits at this moment, for the preaching of this 
great Gospel of Jesus Christ. 

/ 

58 BVANGBLISM. 

Then if this is the gift and the training of the evan- 
geHst, what is his work? The evangelist is to go forth 
and preach the Lordship of Christ, preach Him as Lord 
until men in the presence of His Lordship become con- 
scious of their own failure. Then begins the great com- 
mission of declaring to them that by His Cross salvation 
has come to them, that all they are not, they may be, 
and all they are, they need not be, that the things 
they would not be but are, can be cancelled in blood, 
the things they would be, but are not, they may be by 
life in the Spirit. Oh this is a great message, the evan- 
gel of the Cross. 

But is the proclamation all? By no' means! The evan- 
gelist must constrain men to obey. There must be that 
wonderful wooing note that breaks men's hearts, and 
sweeps them to Christ. That is the final and most re- 
markable note of the real evangelist, by which he con- 
strains men. Not merely the declaration of the evan- 
gel, not merely the announcement of the Lordship of 
Christ, and the declaration of the Cross, but the ability 
to take hold of men, and compel them to Christ. 

Of course some worldly critic will call this personal 
magnetism. That however is not all the truth. It is 
the constraint of the personality of Christ through the 
personality of the consecrated men which wins. , 

Think of the great evangelists, stern men very often, 
and yet their sternness always melted into tears. Every 
great evangelist has been of that nature. The late Robert 

THB BVANGBLIST. 59 

W. Dale of Birmingham, England, greatest of our theo- 
logians said to me, sitting in his study one day, "I think 
I have only known one evangelist that I felt had the 
right to speak of a lost soul." And I said, "Who was it ?" 
He replied, "It was D. L. Moody, and it was because he 
never spoke of the possibility of a man being lost with- 
out tears in his voice." He turned from fiery denuncia- 
tion of sin into quiet plaintive tearful heart-broken con- 
straint. It is the great equipment. It is the great secret. 

If all this be true, what manner of man is the evangelist 
to be in his own character? First of all he must himself 
be a credential of the Gospel he preaches. It is no use 
my preaching the Lordship of Christ unless I am loyal to 
Him. I may eloquently describe His Kingship, I may 
with acumen defend Him against the attacks of others; 
but if mj life is not loyal, my eloquence is sounding brass, 
a tinkling cym.bal, a blasphemy and an impertinence. 

And the man who preaches the Cross must be a cru- 
cified man. You may preach the Cross and it is nothing 
but a Roman gibbet unless you preach it from yourself. 
It is the crucified man that can preach the Cross. Said 
Thomas "Except I shall see in His hands the print 
of the nails…I will not believe." Dr. Parker of 
London said that what Thomas said of Christ, the world 
is saying about the Church. And the world is saying 
to every preacher: Unless I see in your hands the print 
of the nails I will not believe. It is true. It is the man 
who is at the end of himself, who has got to the end of 

60 nVANGBLISM. 

reputation, and the end of earthly ambition, the man who 
has died with Christ, he it is that can preach the Cross 
of Christ. 

And yet more. Not only loyal to His Lordship, and 
not only realizing the power of His Cross, but revealing 
the glory of His resurrection in a life rising above the 
things of this life, triumphing every day; not merely 
the man of the Cross, but the man of the Easter morn- 
ing. Are you, dear brother mine, preacher of the evan- 
gel, are you an Easter morning man? It is not the Cross 
only. It is the Cross and resurrection. Have you come 
to resurrection by the way of the Cross? Is the radiance 
of its glory on your brow? Is the song of an assured 
victory in your heart? If you are doubting, you cannot 
inspire faith. If you are not sure how this thing is going 
to turn out, no one will be persuaded. You must be the 
man of certainty, a man on the resurrection side of the 
grave, the old life behind. You remember the old story 
of a boy flying his kite. He could not see it. A gentle- 
man passing said to him, "What are you doing?'' "Flying 
my kite." "Oh but," he said, "you cannot see it." "No, 
but I feel its pull." It is the man who feels the pull 
of the unseen things that is going to preach this Gospel, 
and the only man who does that will be the man who by 
the way of the Cross, has come out into the resurrection 
life. 

And consequently the evangelist is a man not only 
preaching the possibility of victory by the indwelling 

THB BVANGBLIST. 61 

Christ, he is in himself truly optimistic in the power of 
personal realization of victory. Pessimism paralyzes 
power in evangelistic preaching; but this great optim- 
ism of the indwelling of Christ is a perpetual power. 

And all this means the necessity for unceasing vigi- 
lance. The man who is to be an evangelist, the voice 
of the Church, proclaiming the glad news, how zeal- 
ously and jealously he must guard the gift committed to 
him. What personal examination and correction are 
necessary if this work is to be perfectly done. Oh the 
subtle and insidious foes of the minister, sloth, ambition, 
pride, distraction, these are the things that spoil us. My 
brothers, how we must guard against them. How the 
evangelist needs to live in perpetual fellowship with God. 
How he needs earnestly to devote himself to the hard- 
working, brain-sweating study of his message. And how 
the evangelist needs to be perpetually on the watch for 
souls. 

Let me gather up and conclude. Sympathy with the 
evangelist is in every man gifted by the Spirit, though 
all may not have the specific gift. The varieties create 
the harmonies. Harmony is a concord of differences. 
So whether you have that specific gift or no, you have 
sympathy with it if you are Christ's own minister. At 
least keep that sympathy alive and warm. Don't let 
anything freeze it out, paralyze it. 

My special word is to you, my brothers, perhaps to a 
few only, whom God has called to this special work. 

62 BVANGBLISM, 

Let your spirit be carefully guarded. And yet more 
strongly let me say that you as a witness in the Church, 
having the gift of the evangelist, ought to be able to in- 
spire everyone you meet, men and women in your Church, 
with the sympathy and passion that consumes you. That 
is your first and greatest work even as an evangelist. 

And as there is no calling more wonderful than that 
of the evangelist, therefore none demands more in cost 
and in toil. 

And now this final word to those in whose hearts there 
burns the sympathy. By your prayer, by your co-opera- 
tion, by your determined attempt to sweep everything 
out of the highway, help these men who are called and 
gifted for the proclamation of the message. And if in 
the pastor of your church you have discovered a man 
in whose heart there is this great passion and constraint, 
driving him to win souls, oh, I beseech you, don't hinder 
him, don't bind him, don't prevent him, don't demand that 
he shall put that which is a gift of evangelism into its 
wrong use of taking care of you, but rather in your 
co-operation with him, catch the same spirit, carry on 
the same great glorious work. Thus all of us in measure, 
while some by specific equipment, may be evangelists of 
the Cross. 

EVANGELISM. 

IV. 
THE EVANGELISTIC SERVICE. 

This is the phase of our subject which personally I 
should prefer to omit. I freely confess to a fear of the 
study of methods. I am well aware that such a study 
is necessary, but I am always a little afraid lest we 
should attempt to press into some ready-made method, 
the infinite Spirit of God. "The wind bloweth where it 
will, and thou hearest the voice thereof, but knowest 
not whence it cometh, and whither it goeth, so is every 
one that is born of the Spirit." These words of our 
Master have very wide application. They indicate the 
spontaneity of the work of the Spirit. No man can tell 
whence the wind cometh, or whither it goeth. No man 
can foretell the line along which the Spirit of God will 
operate toward the accomplishment of the Divine 
purpose. It is nevertheless true that no man will make 
the wind his servant save as he learns the true method 
of answering its law. The wind bloweth where it will, 
but if I want the wind to be my servant, and propel 
my boat across the sea I must know how to construct 

63 

64 BVANGBLISM, 

my boat and my sail to catch the wind. And so while 
the Spirit of God is the one Worker, without whom 
nothing can be done along the line of true evangelism, 
it is nevertheless true that it is important that we should 
discover those methods with which He works most 
easily and naturally, and in proportion as we do this 
we shall be able to co-operate with Him in all His 
great work and purpose. 

In dealing with the conduct of an evangelistic service, 
it must be distinctly understood that I would not at- 
tempt to compel every man to use one method, and 
above all, I would not attempt to suggest that I have 
discovered the final or best method by which the Spirit 
may work. 

I want to speak first of all of the place of evangelistic 
services in the course of the regular ministry, and then 
of the work of evangelism at special seasons in the 
life of a church or community. 

The presence in our congregations of those not ac- 
tually and personally submitted to Christ, must always 
create the necessity for such service. Nothing can be 
more paralyzing to the life of a minister himself, or 
to the congregations that assemble regularly to hear 
him as he preaches the word, than that he should come 
to think, or should so preach as to make his people 
think, that definite decision for Christ is not import- 
ant in every individual life. There is a very great peril 
along that line to all of us in the work of the regular 

THB BVANGBLISTIC SERVICE. 65 

ministry. I am very thankful to be able to speak to 
you from the standpoint of twelve years' experience in 
the settled work of the ministry. I know exactly what 
it is to face a congregation Sabbath after Sabbath. There 
is nothing more full of delight than that kind of work, but 
there is a danger that we take too much for granted 
about the people to whom we preach, and if we are not 
careful we shall drift into the opinion that because these 
people are attending services, therefore there is no need 
for the direct appeal of the evangel to be made to them. 
We must ever remember that it is necessary that every in- 
dividual person should come into personal relationship 
with Jesus Christ. We must remember that no child 
is born a Christian. That is not for one single moment 
to enter into any discussion as to the question whether 
or no the children of Christian people are born within 
a covenant. I believe they are, but they are not born 
Christians; and whereas I very strongly hold— and my 
own life's experience is the most remarkable testi- 
mony to the truth of the fact— that where a child is 
born of Christian parents, and is trained in a Christian 
home, the actual acceptance of Jesus Christ as Lord by 
that child is likely to be natural and simple, without 
revulsion, without earthquake shock, soft as the kiss of 
morning on the brow of Nature, sweet as the passing 
zephyr over the fields of flowers, yet there must be def- 
inite submission, and no child because born of Chris- 
tian parents, is therefore a Christian. In all our preach- 

66 BVANGBLISM. 

ing we need to remember that the dear children of our 
own members, coming with them to worship — and there 
is no fairer sight to my own eyes than that of seeing 
father and mother and children sitting before me Sab- 
bath after Sabbath — must each one for himself and 
herself, at some age of understanding and discretion, 
yield their own life to Jesus Christ, or else they can 
never be Christians. 

Now with that conviction in the heart of the minis- 
ter, he will at once see how there must be in his preaching, 
even though he be a pastor and teacher principally, a 
desire for the salvation of these, and there must be oc- 
casionally some message, some appeal, some opportu- 
nity given to those who sit under his ministry, to make 
an immediate decision and a definite confession of Jesus 
Christ. 

No man can have as the burden of his preaching 
the Lordship of Christ, whether the special quality be 
that of the prophet, or that of the evangelist, or that of 
the pastor and teacher, without bringing to the con- 
sciences of those who hear him a conviction of sin. 
In the first of these lectures I laid special emphasis 
upon the first note of the evangel, the Lordship of 
Christ. It is the great theme of preaching. It is the 
message of the prophet to his age. It is the message of 
the evangelist to the individual. It is the message of the 
pastor and teacher, to his people. The prophet pro- 
claims that Jesus is Lord over all the affairs of men. 

THE BVANGBLISTIC SBRVICB. 67 
The evangelist proclaims that Jesus is Lord in the realm 
of the salvation of the individual. The pastor and teacher 
insists upon the Lordship of Christ in the actual life 
of the believer. And no man can preach that Lordship 
in all the spaciousness of its meaning, without those 
who hear him coming into the consciousness of sin. 

Now wherever as the result of the preaching of the 
Lordship of Christ, conviction of sin results in the con- 
sciences of those who hear, there at once is created 
the necessity for the proclamation of the way of sal- 
vation, or in other words, there is the opportunity for 
the evangehstic service. 

Therefore 1 submit that the minister of Jesus Christ 
ought occasionally to hold meetings where he urges im- 
mediate decision, and gives the opportunity for the 
same. We must not be led astray from the essential 
work of the Christian ministry by imagining we have 
some gift which liberates us from responsibility about 
the decision of the men and women who listen to us. 
There is no gift that does not include within it some- 
thing of the evangehstic necessity, of urging the claim 
of Christ upon individuals. I hold no regular ministry 
is complete in which there is never an opportunity for 
immediate decision on the part of those who are 
brought into contact with the fact of the Lordship of 
Christ, and who hear the evangel of salvation. 

As to time and season, my own conviction is that in 
the work of the regular ministry in the vast majority 

68 BVANGBLISM, 

of cases it is not wise to decide that on every Sunday 
night there shall be an evangelistic service. There are 
exceptions to this rule. The local circumstances must 
always decide. In the Moody church of Chicago, where 
Sunday by Sunday there is gathered together a promis- 
cuous crowd, no Sabbath evening passes without an 
evangelistic appeal, and without decisions for Christ. 
Some persons imagine that because it is done there, 
it ought to be so everywhere. That by no means fol- 
lows. Neither do I think it wise to hold an evangelistic 
service at stated intervals. That is too mechanical an 
arrangement. The pastor who is living in fellowship 
with the Spirit of God, and who is seeking to receive 
his messages direct from God, will discover when the 
moment has come in which he must declare the evangel, 
and make his appeal. That is the occasion for the 
evangelistic service. If I may refer to my own experience 
as a pastor, I have gone on from Sunday to Sunday, 
sometimes for one or two months with an evangelistic 
service after each evening service. On the other hand 
there have been periods when only once in the month 
or perhaps twice, such services have been held, and 
sometimes months would pass with no such service. 
I never went to my pulpit knowing whether I would 
have such a service or not. I went with a burden and 
a message;, and having endeavored to lead and train 
my church in co-operation with me, they were never 
surprised if I had an after-meeting. If I did hold one, 

THE BVANGBLISTIC SBRVICB. 69 

I found my officers and workers ready to do the nec- 
essary work. There are a thousand men who have 
not the specific gift of the evangeHst, who yet are able 
to do evangelistic work occasionally as opportunity oc- 
curs. There are a thousand men who have not the 
particular quality that draws to their church the pro- 
miscuous and large multitude, but who nevertheless, are in 
the ministry by the gift and appointment of God, and their 
special work will be that of preaching regularly to a 
congregation composed very largely of the same people, 
but into which strangers will constantly be coming. 
There is no congregation made up of saints, conse- 
quently there will be in all congregations an element of 
those interested but not submitted, and the minister 
must ever have on his heart the burden of such people. 
A great many ministers say to me, We don't feel we 
can conduct evangelistic services like that. How shall 
we do it? First of all by the use of your natural en- 
dowments. There are men who have remarkable pow- 
ers of persuasion at an election, who yet say they can- 
not urge men to decision for Christ. If you have in- 
fluenced a man to vote as he ought to vote for the 
good of the country, you should be able to win a man 
for Christ. A man in the ministry of Jesus Christ, 
whose heart has been touched with the Spirit of God, 
must feel the compassion of the heart of Christ towards 
men, and must feel the winning and drawing power 
of the Christ over men. If a minister have no compas- 

70 BVANGBLISM. 

sion for men, no yearning for souls, no knowledge ol 
Y what it is to travail in birth for the souls of men, he 

f should search his own heart and life, and see what it 
means, for there must be something wrong between him 
and his Lord, or that compassion and power of con- 
straint would most certainly be there. 

As to the conduct of an after-meeting. The first thing 
necessary is that the minister should preach so as to 
make one necessary. It is no use conducting an after- 
meeting after any sort of preaching. If decision has 
been urged in the preaching, then I cannot help think- 
ing that if in the power of the Spirit an appeal be made 
for immediate response, it will be realized. fTwo or 
three years ago it was my privilege to take part in 
the simultaneous mission arranged for by the Free 
Church Council of England. Some people will tell 
you thar mission was a failure. That is only partially 
true. I am quite prepared to admit that it did not suc- 
ceed in any large extent, in reaching the vast masses of the 
unchurched people. There were exceptions of course, 
but both in London and the provinces there were whole 
regions, residential regions very often, as well as slum 
regions, which were hardly touched at all. But the 
[ movement was a glorious success in that it aroused 
jj in the hearts of hundreds of pastors an interest in evan- 

f( gelistic work, and turned them to evangelism in their 
own churches. The provincial mission which I conduc- 
ted was held in the Town Hall of the city. There were 

THB BVANGBLISTIC SBRVICH. 71 
united in that mission all the Free Churches. God 
greatly blessed the services, and many were brought 
to Christ. The last meeting I held was with the minis- 
ters, a conference in which they asked what they could 
do to take up and carry on the work. I suggested that 
on the next Sunday night every man, whether he had 
ever done so before or not, should preach to his own 
congregation with the distinctive and avowed purpose 
of persuading many of them whom he loved, but who 
as yet had not yielded to Christ, to yield to Him at once. 
To this they agreed, and on that next Sunday night 
every minister preached to his own people an evangel- 
istic sermon, held an after-meeting, and through all the 
city men and women were saved. I believe that every 
minister who would prayerfully hold such a service in 
his own church, and among his own people, would have 
actual and definite results. 

Now as to evangelistic services at special seasons. 
Such seasons may arise in some individual church, or 
in some union movement among the churches. I do 
not propose now to discuss the union movements. I 
am not discrediting them. I thank God for all of them 
which are so much blessed in my own country, and 
in this. For the splendid work being done by Dr. Tor- 
rey and Mr. Alexander I thank God perpetually. But 
what I am principally interested in is a new devotion 
to evangelistic work in our churches, and consequently 
I want to confine myself very largely to the special mis- 

72 nVANGBLISM. 

sion of evangelism in the church. In the work of a 
Faithful ministry there will come special seasons when 
the minister and office bearers alike will have borne 
in upon them the conviction that the time is ripe for 
harvest. The movement may begin with some woman 
who prays, and keeps on praying quietly and alone, 
making no talk about it, until a conviction that God 
is beginning to .work takes possession of the whole 
church. That is the occasion for the work of the special 
evangehst. Very many feel that the minister himself 
is the true man for the work. It may be so in some 
instances, but it is more fitting In the majority of cases 
that the minister should seek for some man to co-op- 
erate with him, whose gift is specifically that of the 
evangelist. 

Now as to method and management. When the 
church is conscious of imminent Divine visitation there 
must be the most careful and watchful preparation. It 
should begin in the gathering together of the church for 
united prayer. I think that when the church is conscious of 
Divine visitation, of the movement of the Spirit of God, 
there need be no indecent hurry. Nothing is lost by a 
time of waiting, during which the church is gathered 
together for solemn preparation by consecration and in- 
tercession. Then there must be systematic preparation 
as to the needs of the whole neighborhood. If a church 
in a district or neighborhood is going to hold a series 
of special meetings, that is the moment in which that 

THB BVANGBLISTIC SBRVICB. 73 

church stretches out In actual endeavor to reach the 
whole neighborhood. Every house in the neighbor- 
hood will receive invitations to the services, and it will 
be seen that an invitation shall reach every person, not 
once or twice, but a dozen times before the services be- 
gin. That is Very detailed and technical I know, but it 
is along such lines of hard work, and consecrated prayer- 
ful preparation that the greatest blessings have come 
to services held in connection with individual churches. 
During the course of the meetings every member of 
the church should be a worker. It may be urged that 
that is a counsel of perfection which can never be car- 
ried out. At least let it he a counsel of perfection, and 
let every church attempt to realize it. It may be ob- 
jected that it is not necessary that every church member 
should be a worker. And yet nothing is more import- 
ant. There are many kinds of workers wanted in con- 
nection with evangelistic meetings, house-to-house visit- 
ors; Christian men and women in the choir to sing 
the Gospel; Christian men as ushers; specially trained 
and qualified enquiry room workers; and beyond all 
these, a band of men and women, who unable to help 
in any of the ways indicated, shall labor together with 
the rest, in earnest pleading prayer. The church mem- 
bership should be called together, and the burden of 
this matter laid upon them in the spirit of prayer. Then 
let arrangements be made. Finding out what each is 
fitted for, allot "to every man his work." 

74 BVANGBLISM. 

The importance of house-to-house visitation is very 
great. Let the visitation be courteous and kind, and yet 
insistent as to the claims of Jesus Christ, devoid of 
arrogance, but characterized by a winning courteous 
manner. Let that be done time after time, until it 
shall be impossible for any human being in the neigh- 
bourhood of the church to say ''no man careth for my 
soul." 

As to the singing. If there is one thing not wanted 
in evangelistic work it is a number of unconverted men 
and women to lead the singing. Christian men and 
women are needed, who in all their singing show the 
tender and matchless power of Jesus Christ, and they 
should be gathered out of the church. 

Then as to the stewards and ushers. Are we not 
sometimes a little in danger of forgetting the import- 
ance of them? The way a man is met at the door and 
shown to his chair, may decide him for or against God. 
The way a man is welcomed or repulsed may attract 
him to Christ or drive him from Christ. In all such 
special services there should be the greatest care taken 
that those attending should be welcomed by those who 
manifest the love of Christ. You may have all your 
angular, peculiar, crochetty sidesmen when the church 
only is there, but you want the men of gracious strength, 
and tender heart, and loving welcome, and genial face, 
and sweet Christian hfe to welcome men into the house 

T'HH BVANGBLISTIC SHRVICU. 75 

of God when you are going to urge them to decision for 
Jesus Christ. 

And finally the enquiry room workers. Let me ut- 
ter here a solemn word of warning. Make your enquiry 
room secure against the intrusion of any person un- 
known. Let anybody have the right to enter the en- 
quiry room, and all the fads and fanatics of the district 
will be there first. I was jealously, zealously careful 
to guard my enquiry room against the intrusion of any 
person not known to myself. That means there must 
be preparation by the minister of his workers, and there 
ought to be an enquiry room class in which he shall 
meet a chosen band and instruct them in the method 
of dealing with souls. These need appointing and ar- 
ranging for with great wisdom and care. 

If the membership is not exhausted by these appoint- 
ments, then all the rest can pray. I am greatly im- 
pressed today as I meet with men whom God is using, 
and find their experience coinciding so closely with my 
own. I crave today more than I ever did in my life, 
with a greater longing than I ever felt, to know that 
men and women are praying for me. In New York 
recently three men came to me, and these three men 
looked into my face and said, "For five years we three 
have prayed for you every day by solemn covenant.'' 
I cannot tell you what it meant to me. If our evan- 
gelistic work is going to be a success we must get our 

76 BVANGBLISM. 

people regularly and systematically to pray. Epaphras 
agonized in prayer. Now it is not given to everyone 
to spend long hours in prayer. Thank God for the 
men and women who can do it. God does not mean 
everybody should do that. But we can form the habit 
of prayer, so that we can pray here, there, anywhere, 
everywhere. I^et the members band themselves to- 
gether to pray. It has often been pointed out that it 
is a remarkable thing that when Paul preached on 
Mar's Hill, there were few if any converts, but when 
Peter preached on the day of Pentecost thousands were 
swept into the Kingdom of God; and it is an interest- 
ing question why in the one case so few, and in the 
other so many were attracted and influenced. No one 
;would like to suggest that Peter was more abandoned to 
God than Paul. Peter preached in the midst of a com- 
pany of praying men and women, and Paul did not. 
And account for it as you will, go into the mystery 
and philosophy of it as you will, the fact remains that 
the Holy Spirit of God works more easily in the at- 
mosphere of praying men and women than without 
them. 

Then the combined business acumen of the church 
members should be consecrated to this work. Oh, 
when will all the business ability in the church be conse- 
crated to the work of the Church? Some men think 
that they need their business ability for their business, 
and that it is enough to give a check to the church. If 

THB BVANGBLISTIC SBRVICB. 11 

a, man is offering for sale something that he wants to 
make profit out of for himself, he will push it in front 
of your eyes wherever you go. I cannot travel any 
distance without seeing the virtues of some soap ex- 
tolled under my eyes wherever I look. If I could only 
get hold of the business acumen, and turn it into ac- 
count for the Kingdom of God. 

I don't g(iite like the comparison, but I am going to 
use it. When the Church begins to run the business 
of Jesus Christ like the world runs the business of sell- 
ing soap, we shall do something. I will tell you a story 
out of my own experience. I went at one time to con- 
duct a series of special services in a district in England. 
I was to be there for two weeks. One of the officers 
wrote to me just before I went, and he said, "Our 
chapel has been renovated, and very beautifully ren- 
ovated, and we are afraid the crowds may spoil it, 
and we are going to have the services only for one 
week." Oh, the shame of it! The preservation of 
paint of more importance than the salvation of souls! 
Let the business men of the Church recognize that 
they are in business partnership with Jesus Christ, and 
let them apply all the push and go which they use in 
their own business to the business of the Kingdom. 
That should be so always, but specially in the time of 
the special mission. Such preparation is mechanical, 
but it is the mechanism through which the Holy Spirit 
of God may do His work. The work of the evangelistic 

78 BVANGBLISM. 

mission in our churches first demands all our conse- 
crated endeavor. If we attempt to do it in any other 
way, we shall fail as we deserve to do. If for instance 
we say we will hold some special services, and then is- 
sue two hundred and fifty bills, four inches square, 
and open the doors and imagine we have done every- 
thing, we are demonstrating our unbelief in our own 
enterprise, and the world is very apt to measure the 
importance of those things by the standard of the 
Church's estimate of their value. 

We must put into the work of saving men and women 
sinew and brain, and muscle, and blood, and then we 
shall begin to move the world. 

Finally I want to say something as to the actual 
/conduct of an evangelistic service, whether it be the 
occasional service in the regular work of the pastorate, 
or whether in the special series. 

In an evangelistic service the whole conduct of the 
service must be conducive to the one business of win- 
ning men. I begin with the smaller matters first. The 
physical conditions must be remembered. The build- 
ing in which the evangelistic service is to be held must 
be one in which it is possible for people to be physi- 
cally comfortable. 

There was a good man in Sheffield, England, named 
Tom Graham, remarkable in his success in winning 
souls, who used to say something not elegant in ex- 
pression, but perpetually true, "I never knew a man 

THH EVANGELISTIC SERVICE. 79 

saved with cold feet." It is of prime importance that 
.we attend to the physical conditions. The building must 
be such as people can at least be comfortable in, and by 
being comfortable forget the physical and attend to 
the spiritual. As long as a man is conscious of the 
physical it is very hard for him to attend to the spiritual. 
The building must be properly warmed and ventilated. 
The physical conditions must be of the best. 

The next point of importance is that those who enter 
the building to an evangelistic service should be wel- 
comed. The caretaker and the ushers must be chosen 
>vith great care if this is to be so. Then accommoda- 
tion must be provided, and so far as possible those 
coming must be courteously seated, and attended to. 
We must in love make men feel that they are more 
welcome to this service than they ever were in a saloon 
or theater. 

Then further in the evangelistic service the general 
tone of the proceedings should be carefully guarded. 
There should be an absence of merely stilted dignity 
on the part of the minister and the office bearers of 
the church. D. L. Moody once said that dignity was 
not one of the fruits of the Spirit anyhow. If a poor 
man comes into the church and is patronized, the chances 
of winning him are greatly reduced. And yet the tone 
should not only be free from stilted dignity, it should 
be free from all undue frivolity. Nothing should be 
done by speaker, singer, or anyone else for the sake of 

80 BVANGBLISM. 

simply raising a laugh. I am sorry for the man who 
lacks a sense of humor, but humor should be the 
play of summer Hghtning, clearing the air, and not 
the degradation of the pulpit into an entertainment, 
in which the main object is to make people laugh. 

The tone should be that of a reverent gladness, the 
hymns pulsating with hope, the attitude of every man 
taking part in the work that of one who believes in 
God, and in the possibilities of the man that has come 
in. Reverent and hopeful in all things let the true 
evangelistic service be. 

And once again. The whole of the service in the 
hands of the evangelist should conduce to the one mat- 
ter in hand, of winning men for Christ, the singing, the 
Scripture, and prayer, and the sermon. I do not be- 
lieve that it is wise in an evangelistic service that the 
evangelist should hand the conduct of the singing over 
to any second man. In the actual service he should 
select his own hymns, such as will lead up to his sub- 
ject, and such as will appeal to the people on the line 
thereof. I would have half an hour's singing before 
the service proper begins, under the charge of the di- 
rector, but the moment I come to the platform as the 
evangelist, I want to select my own hymns. I don't 
want a hymn sung absolutely out of harmony with 
anything I am going to say. There needs to be this 
harmony. So also with the matter of the Scripture 
reading. So also with the prayer prayed. An evan- 

THB BVANGBLISTIC SBRVICB. 81 

gelist will be very careful about whom he asks to 
pray. It is a great mistake to take hold of the Rev. 
Mr. So and So, who does not believe in evangelistic 
meetings, and get him to lead in prayer in order to 
enlist his sympathy. I don't want to do him good 
just now. I am after this sinner here, and I want the 
man to pray who knows the way into the secret place, 
who knows how to get at the heart of God. All these 
things are important. I do not think we can afford to 
miss a single detail. 

And as to the sermon. In an evangelistic service 
it must be one aimed at the capture of the will for 
Jesus Christ. Different congregations will demand dif- 
ferent methods. One method of presenting truth will 
appeal to one class of the community, and quite another 
method will be necessary for another class. Thomas 
Chapness says that the most remarkable text on how to 
be a soul winner is the text, "I will make you fishers of 
men." I once heard him speak on that text, and in the 
course of his sermon he said, 'A fisher is very careful 
about his bait. If I want to catch a codfish, I fling them 
out a bait as big as a clock weight, and they swallow it. 
But if I am going for salmon I have a fly, and whip 
the stream with delicacy and art.' There are some 
preachers who will appeal along the line of the intel- 
lect and reason. There are men caught on the flood 
tide of emotion. But back of the intellect and emo- 
tion is the citadel, the will, and it is for that the preacher 

82 BVANGBLISM. 

strives. Whether he captures the will through the intel- 
lect or through the emotion depends upon the persons 
addressed and on the preacher; but the supreme busi- 
ness is to appeal to the will, and to bring it into submis- 
sion to the Lordship of Christ. The business of the 
evangelist is to get a verdict for Jesus Christ there 
and then. To the realization of that everything else must 
therefore be subservient in the sermon. The preacher's 
literary reputation, the preacher's rhetorical reputa- 
tion, yes, the preacher's theological reputation. The 
evangehst in the preaching of the evangelistic sermon 
will not be principally occupied with literary form, or 
rhetorical expression, or even of theology as such. His 
business will be to get that man for Christ, and when 
that is remembered, the sermon will get its true tone, 
its true quality. 

One other word, ^he true evangelist will be very 
careful to avoid the possibility of a passion for num- 
bered results spoiling his message. I sometimes fear 
lest the desire to have large statistical returns may 
tend to make a man make the way of salvation unduly 
easy. I think there is a danger. We have been preach- 
ing 'Believe,' and we have not sufficiently said 'Repent,' 
'repent,' 'repent,' and we have still to preach this truth, 
that unless a man will turn to God from idols, then his 
faith though he boast of it, is dead and worthless. 
There is no question of precedence. The quality of 
faith must be that of repentence, and the dynamic of re- 

THB BVANGBLISTIC SERVICE. 83 

pentance must be that of faith, and when we urge upon 
men that they believe on the Lord Jesus, we must say- 
that belief means submission to the Lordship, and that 
means turning from every other lord that has held 
dominion over the soul. We must not lower the claim 
of truth as presented to the people. Therefore the 
evangelistic sermon must be as carefully prepared as 
any other sermon. We cannot dare to imagine that 
we have the right to face a great crowd of people, and 
declare the evangel unless we have taken solemn time 
to know the evangel, its terms, its content, and its mes- 
sage to men. When some of our best trained men, the 
most highly equipped mentally turn to aggressive evan- 
gelism, then we shall have the most successful evan- 
gelists. 

A word about the after-meeting. I feel very strongly 
that the best method of conducting an after-meeting 
is that of making it an after-meeting rather than a con- 
tinuance of the first meeting. That runs counter to 
many ideas. Let every man be fully persuaded in his 
own mind. Personally I do not Hke an after-meeting 
at which any are unwillingly present. I ask that all 
those who would like to stay behind do so. I never 
make an appeal (or very rarely under pressure of 
circumstances) until I have given an opportunity to 
everybody to go who desires to do so. It is sometimes 
said that by such means we miss so many men upon 
whom the Spirit of God has put His constraint. I 

84 BVANGBLISM. 

do not believe it, and I would rather have a dozen peo- 
ple constrained, convicted, and converted, than a hun- 
dred caught in some emotional movement, in which 
movement there was no real depth of conviction and 
result. The after-meeting is to give men and women 
an opportunity to decide for Christ and confess Him 
immediately and openly. Here occurs the place for 
enquiry room work. There is no sacramental virtue 
in an enquiry room. The enquiry room is simply for 
enquiring souls to come that they may be intelligently 
dealt with about the spiritual perplexities. And that 
makes necessary the training of enquiry room workers. 
You cannot deal intelligently and correctly with a hun- 
dred at once. Every case has an individual problem, 
and there are two words that cover the ground of such 
work, and these are the words diagnosis and direction. 
By diagnosis I mean that the intelligent enquiry room 
worker will take hold of the case and find out where 
the particular difficulty is. It is not at all wise to say, 
'AH you have to do is to believe.' The difficulty in 
each case must be discovered, and there needs careful, 
spiritual, proper training, in order that it may be done. 
When the difficulty is found out, then there must be 
the quiet clear pointing of that soul to Christ. Then 
whether in the after-meeting or in the enquiry room, 
there is a point where preacher or worker must stand 
aside, and leave the soul with God alone. I have 
seen people go with their Bible to an enquirer, and 

THB BVANGBLISTIC SERVICE. 85 

say, *Now do you see that verse?' 'Oh, yes/ Well, 
can you read that verse ?' 'Oh, yes/ 'Read that verse/ 
And that person will read that verse, and then the 
worker says 'Now do you believe that?' 'Yes, I be- 
lieve that/ 'Then you are saved/ Now we have no 
business to tell any man he is saved. There is a point where 
we have to stand aside and let God and the man deal 
alone with each other. We can help, lead, point, coun- 
sel, warn, plead, but at last regeneration is the com- 
ing of God to the soul that comes to Him, and we have 
to draw aside and leave the individual to God. 

I close as I began. I do not like lectures on methods, 
and I pray you, receive what I have said only as I have 
attempted to show principles, and not as I have at- 
tempted to lay down rules. But the great and supreme 
matter is this, that every church of Jesus Christ ought 
to have in it evangelistic work going on regularly or 
periodically, and add to its membership by such as are 
led to Christ individually and directly. 

EVANGELISM. 
V. 

iTHE PRESENT OPPORTUNITY. 

It is always difficult to measure correctly the times 
in which we live. It has been said that no man can 
write the history of his own times. Consequently it 
is not easy for one to understand the spirit of his own 
age, and yet those who are called to lead must know 
something of that spirit; indeed, it is one of the essen- 
tial qualifications for leadership. When the tribes came 
up to make David king at Hebron, it is said of the 
children of Issachar that they "had understanding of 
the times, to know what Israel ought to do," and im- 
mediately afterwards it is further said, "all their breth- 
ren were at their commandment." That is to say, the 
men that led were the men of Issachar, and all the rest 
of the tribes were willing to follow their lead. That 
was the qualification of leadership, "men that had un- 
derstanding of the times, to know what Israel ought to 
do." To any of us God calls to leadership, and I do 
not mean only conspicuous examples, but those called 
into the ministry of the Word in any form, one of the 

86 

THB PRESENT OPPORTUNITY. 87 

prime qualifications is an understanding of the times. 
It is pre-eminently difficult to form an estimate in 
spiritual matters. There is a wide application in the 
words of Jesus, "The wind bloweth where it will, and 
thou hearest the voice thereof, but knowest not whence 
it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is everyone that is 
born of the Spirit." There are things about the blow- 
ing of the wind we do not know, so also with regard 
to the spirit of the age. And yet the Master rebuked 
the men who did not understand their own age. He 
said. Ye hypocrites, "When it is evening, ye say, It 
will be fair weather, for the heaven is red. And in the 
morning. It will be foul weather today: for the heaven 
is red and lowering. Ye know how to discern the face of 
the heaven; but ye cannot discern the signs of the 
times." 

Recognizing both the difficulty and necessity then, 
I want to speak first of the spirit of the age, and then 
to ask. Have we an evangel that meets the demand? 

The spirit of an age is not always to be discovered 
at first glance, or by a merely casual survey of the 
field. Much that is about us is the issue of a past, 
and the true spirit of an age is not to be defined by 
the general consensus of opinion, but by the single 
voices which are beginning to sound, which for the 
moment are startling and full of surprise. If I casu- 
ally survey the age, the first thing which I notice is 
its materiaHsm. We are cursed by materialism. Com- 

88 BVANGBLISM. 

mercial prosperity has seemed as though it would grind 
under its heel all spiritual life. That is the general outlook. 
Yet if a man should say that the spirit of the age is that 
of materiaHsm, he has missed the deepest note. He has 
not heard the deepest voice, but has taken the casual 
outlook. A general survey is not what we need. It 
was said of President McKinley that he was a great 
statesman, because he had the faculty of putting his 
ear to the ground, and listening for the things that 
were coming. It was a remarkable capacity. A man 
who knows how to listen for the new voices, and see 
the fresh visions is the true statesman. In the words 
of the Bible he is a man "who has understanding of 
the times," and knows what the people ought to do. 
We don't want to be led astray by the clamor of the 
mob. We want to listen for the new voices, the voices 
which are forming public opinion. If that be under- 
stood, I want to say three things. I think that the 
spirit of the age is characterized first, by a revolt against 
materialism. That is the very opposite of the first 
impression. Yet I believe that to be the note which 
is sounding clearly at the present moment. And next 
there is abroad a new passion for the practical. Call 
it altruism, utilitarianism if you will. I prefer the other 
phrase because it is more simple. And the third fact is 
that there is a great sense present in the hearts of men 
today, of some coming visitation. These three notes 
mark the spirit of the age in which we are called to live 

THB PRBSBNT OPPORTUNITY. 89 

and serve; first, a revolt against materialism; second, a 
new passion for that which is practical; and finally, a 
great, mystic, mysterious sense of some coming visit- 
ation. 

First of all I suppose having referred to materialism, / 
and then having declared that there is a revolt against 
materialism, it is perfectly fair to ask me to demonstrate 
my statement. One of the evidences that there is a 
revolt against materialism in the air is the marvelous 
and astounding growth of Christian Science. As to 
Christian Science itself I hold it to be characterized 
by an absence of the Christian, and an ignorance of 
science. But here is a great movement, and it is fair 
that we should ask, What does it mean? I have tray- 
elect in your railways over eighty thousand miles, and 
visited cities, and touched all sections of the Christian 
ministry, and there is hardly a place where Christian 
Science is not successful. It is not only that they gather 
into their fold fanatics or people characterized by neu- 
rosis, but some of the sweetest and best Christians 
have also gone over to them. What is the secret? 
Christian Science stands for two things: the negation qf 
sin, and the affirmation of J :];>^ spiritual. That is an 
%ttempt to get at the heart of it. It says, There is 
no material, everything is spiritual. Matter does not 
exist. It is a mental fault, a mental miscalculation to 
imagine you have matter. Thus they emphasize the 
spiritual, falsely emphasizing it as we believe, and ab- 

90 EVANGELISM. 

surety too, but this very emphasis of the spiritual has 
been the attraction of a people tired of materialism. 
The materialism of the past said, Matter is everything, 
but today Christian Science says, No, matter is nothing, 
the spiritual is everything. The argument we hold 
to be ridiculous and absurd and laughable, but the 
underlying principle is the thing that draws the multi- 
tudes, a reaffirmation of the spiritual. 

And then the negation of sin. Here is where we 
supremely join issue with Christian Scientists. They 
are calling something Christian which denies atone- 
ment, because it denies sin. Any theory that denies 
the sin of man, and denies the Cross of Christ is some- 
thing to be dreaded. And yet even though they deny 
the atonement of Christ, they endeavor to get rid of 
sin by denial. 1 do not hesitate to affirm that if the 
Christian Church had only been true to the Gospel 
of spirituality, and the Gospel of holiness, there would 
have been no room for Christian Science. And yet the 
presence of it in our midst is evidence of a revolt 
against materialism, and though it is but a will-o-the- 
wisp, that dances among the quagmires, men would 
rather have the will-o-the-wisp than the dense black 
darkness of materialism. It is a sign of the times. 

But still far more striking is it that the affirmations 
of science at the present hour most remarkably demon- 
strate the truth that the age is characterized by revolt 
from materialism. Huxley, Spencer, Tyndal, Darwin 

THB PRBSBNT OPPORTUNITY, 91 

twenty-five years ago denied the reality of anything ex- 
cept matter. We heard much of the atom, of the pro- 
toplasmic germ, of the fortuitous concurrence of atoms, 
and these were given to us as the final solution of 
which man was capable,'of the whole riddle and mystery 
of the universe. Lord Kelvin, the/tiestor of British 
scientific thought, perhaps the most remarkable living 
man of science, has said, that "Science positively affirms 
creative power, and makes everyone feel a miracle in 
himself." He says, "It is not in dead matter that 
man lives, moves or has being, but in the creative 
and directive power, which science compels them to 
accept as an article of scientific belief." The latest 
scientific pronouncement of the age is that there is 
something at the back of matter, that there is a spir- 
itual force behind. Science has not yet gone far enough 
to define, but it has absolutely abandoned the position of 
twenty-five years ago, that all that is, is the accidental 
coming together of atoms. Darwin's evolutionary the- 
ory has passed. The evolutionary theory has not passed 
but has come to stay. It is probably true in certain 
realms. But the evolutionary theory of Darwin is not 
held by reputable scientific men today. That some germ 
of truth lies within the theory there can be no longer 
any doubt, but we are now coming to see that while 
the evolutionary theory may have an application to the 
material realm, it does not account for spiritual life 
at any point. And the scientist is acknowledging it. 

i 

92 BVANGBLISM. 

Two very remarkable books have recently been issued. 
First that of Professor James of Harvard University, 
entitled, "Varieties of Religious Experiences." This 
is a book written not from the standard of a Christian 
man, a book written not by a professor in a Christian 
Theological Seminary, but by a professor of psychology, 
plainly and simply upon the basis of scientific study 
of the psychological problems of life. He has gathered 
up all kinds of religious experiences, and after carefully 
and systematically examining his data, has made his 
deductions. Let me read you one sentence from the 
part of the book in which the Professor gives his 
conclusions. He claims they are scienti^c conclusions 
based upon an examination of data. "We and God 
have business with each other, and in opening ourselves 
to His influence, our deepest destiny is fulfilled." Here 
is a scientific testimony that thousands of men are 
reading in this land today. Men that call themselves 
scientists, take this book up, and they read that after 
examination of the experiences of men, the professor 
has come to this twofold conclusion, first that man has 
dealings with God, and that human life can only fulfill 
its deepest destiny when man is submitted to the gov- 
ernment of God. The influence of such a deduction 
by so eminent a scientific thinker is bound to be that 
of creating a revolt from materialism in the minds of 
thousands of the thinking youth of our colleges and 
universities. 

THB PRMSBNT OPPORTUNITY, 93 

And yet once again, there has issued from the press, 
since Prof. James' book, a book by Frederic W. H. 
Myers. The history of Myers is an interesting one. 
He was an Oxonean, and a pronounced High Church- 
man and during that period of his High Churchism, he 
wrote the poem of "St. Paul," to me at least one of the 
most exquisite pieces of poetry in the English language. 
After that he passed into agnosticism, reverent agnos- 
ticism, never attacking Christianity, but declaring him- 
self to be unsure. There he lived for years, became in- 
terested in the work of the Psychical Research Society, 
of the phenomena of spiritual existences as they man- 
ifested themselves in ordinary life, and outside the 
church. He has left two volumes, published after his 
death, the title of which reveals the subject. "Human 
Personality, and its Survival of Bodily Death." Such a 
book is received by scientists, they will read this book, 
and they will not all agree that he has proved his 
case. But as Myers says, twenty-five years from now 
no reputable scientist will question the fact of the res- 
urrection of Jesus Christ from among the dead. In 
the next twenty-five years we have to speak to people in 
whom there will be a reawakened sense of the reality 
of the spiritual. There is nothing more encouraging 
than this, that in the world of purely scientific invest- 
igation there is a re-afiirmation of all the things we 
stand for. 

The next note of the age is a passion for the prac- 

94 /' 

^. nVANGBLISM. 

tical. I need hardly stay, in speaking to American au- 
diences, to prove the truth of this. You have a passion 
for the practical, for you have no respect for ancient 
things. Americans have no respect for institutions 
merely as such, and I confess I have the profoundest 
sympathy with them. It is the altruistic spirit which 
governs this great people, and it is in the van-guard 
of humanity at the present moment. The cry today is 
for an ethical and social Gospel. Everywhere men are 
crying for a social and ethical Gospel, for something 
that touches all needs of men's lives. There is a passion 
everywhere for something that conditions actual life, 
and affects the details of every man's doings. It is a 
true passion. The passion for the practical is mani- 
festing itself in England in a new antagonism to Chris- 
tianity. Robert Blatchford is writing the most definite 
articles of attack on Christianity. He is rousing the 
whole of the pulpits in England to consider and answer 
them. So strong a paper as the "British Weekly" has 
thought it necessary to devote space to answering these 
attacks. What is it this man is attacking? He is at- 
tacking the miraculous and supernatural elements in 
Christianity, the virgin birth of our Holy Lord, and 
His resurrection. Why? Because Christianity fails 
to do what he thinks she ought to do; and consequently 
this very antagonism of his is a new sign of the passion 
for the practical. 

And lastly there is a sense of coming visitation, of 

THB PRBSBNT OPPORTUNITY. 95 

which we hear from all sides and from divers voices. 
Mistakes of interpretation there may be, but the gen- 
eral fact is recognized. Men everywhere are looking 
for something, they hardly know what. 

Thus I hold that today the age is characterized by 
revolt against materialism, by a passion for the practical, 
and by a sense of daybreak at hand. 

Now let me ask, Does our evangel fit the needs of 
the age? Have we any need to find a new evangel, 
or what shall we do? I submit that the evangel of 
Jesus Christ exactly answers the need created by the 
spirit of the age, for it is a protest against materialism, 
and an assertion of the variety of the spiritual; it is 
practical, or it is nothing; and the visitation that is to 
come must have as its essential notes the very evangel 
committed to us to declare. 

The evangel is exactly in harmony with the spirit of 
the age in its revolt against materialism. What is the 
Gospel that we have to preach? What are the notes of 
the Gospel? The first note in the evangel of Jesus 
Christ is the assertion of His Lordship. The preaching 
of the Lordship of Christ will answer this cry for spirit- 
uality. Kelvin has affirmed the Divinity of creation 
or the Deity at back of creation. Jesus long ago stood 
among the flowers and birds, and said, God clothes these 
flowers, and feeds these birds. The last scientific asser- 
tion synchronizes with the simple statement of the Naz- 
arene long years ago, that at back of the flower, and 

% BVANGBLISM. 

bird, and everything, is God. Dr. James says, "We have 
dealings with God." That is the last affirmation of psy- 
chological science. Listen, "Seek ye first His Kingdom, 
and His righteousness, and all these things shall be ad- 
ded unto you." That is the answer of our King. The 
last affirmation of psychological science harmonizes with 
what He taught. Frederic Myers in his posthumous 
work affirms in this day human personality to be 
stronger than death, to exist after the death of the 
body, that man does not cease to exist when his body 
ceases to exist. That is the whole declaration of two 
great volumes. Listen. "Be not afraid of them that 
kill the body, and after that have no more that they can 
do." In neither of these cases did Jesus Christ defend 
what these men are affirming. They refer to them as 
discoveries. He referred to them incidentally, as es- 
tablished verities. What this age needs is to show 
that Jesus is Lord in the intellectual realm, and that 
the last things scientists are saying, are in harmony 
with the things Jesus Christ said centuries ago. He 
was not the half-educated and half-ignorant Galilean 
peasant some would have us believe, but supreme 
among men in the intellectual realm; and stated as the 
common-places of His knowledge, things which they 
have taken nineteen hundred centuries to spell out. He 
affirmed the reality of the spiritual. He told men what 
they need is eternal life, and eternal life is not a quan- 

THE PRBSBNT OPPORTUNITY. 97 

tity, but a quality, life that touches the infinite, that is 
homed in God, that takes in eternity. All this sighing 
after the spiritual is to be answered by preaching Jesus 
Christ as Lord, and bringing men into submission to 
Him. He will lead them into life, and they will find 
they have an answer to their deepest cry, the sense of 
the spiritual. 

And then as to the passion for practical things. How 
is it manifested? We are told we must have a social 
and ethical Gospel. Where will you find it? It is a re-, 
markable thing that these very men when they tell us 
what they want, refer to the Sermon on the Mount. 
Whose Gospel was that? It is the Gospel of our King. 
You say you want a practical Gospel, that this age must 
have a social and ethical Gospel. Well, here it is. But 
Christianity as it delivers its message is more prac- 
tical than the men who are crying for practical things. 
Men are saying, We want an ethical and social Gospel. 
We don't want to hear about the Cross. We have had 
enough of the Cross. Give us something social and 
practical. Christ is so practical that He never asks 
men to obey His laws unless they are regenerate. 

Christ takes into account the paralysis in human life. 
You cannot build up a regenerated society unless you 
have regenerated men. You will find that Christianity 
is pre-eminently practical. It does not attempt to con- 
struct a living society out of dead matter, neither does it 

6 

98 nVANGBLISM. 

attempt to realize a pure order among corrupt men, 
neither does it attempt to give a perfect ethic to par- 
alyzed individuals. It takes hold of the man first, and 
remakes him, and then remakes society. It takes hold 
of the man fast bound in sin, and breaks his chains, and 
then tells him to walk upright. Men will never be in- 
fluenced by a social Gospel until they have heard and 
obeyed the Gospel of regeneration. 

Let us thank God for the wider outlook of the age in 
which we live. Oh how many children are crying in 
the night, and with no language but a cry. Our busi- 
ness is to interpret the cry of the child to itself. Men 
want something. They will sob out all sorts of foolish 
things, and tell us what they think they want. Never 
let us forget that they will never have the satisfactory 
answer to their profoundest and widest prayer save 
along the line of personal regeneration. It is a sad 
thing indeed when a minister of Jesus Christ thinks of 
himself as an interesting entertainer, an intellectual in- 
structor of his people merely, or a social reformer, or 
a political agent merely. He ought to have something 
else to do. The principal work to which he is called 
wherever he may be sent, is that of bringing individ- 
uals into touch with spiritual realities, and in propor- 
tion as he is able to lead men to Christ individually, he 
is answering the cry of the age for the spiritual, for the 
practical; and contributing to that great visitation for 
which men are sighing and waiting in the darkness. 

THB PRBSBNT OPPORTUNITY, 99 

The voices of the age are full of hope. I know the 
other side. I know the pressure of the burden, and the 
apparent strength of sin. These are but the symptoms 
of a day. God is moving towards victory. May He 
make us fellow workers with Him. 

By Rev. F. B. Meyer 

The Shepherd Psalm« Illustrated. Printed in two 
colors. 1:2mo, cloth, gilt top, boxed, $1.25; full gilt, 
$1.50. 

The Bells of Is* Echoes from my early pastorates. 
With portrait. lamo, cloth, 75 c. 

Prayers for Heart and Home. 8vo, flex, cloth, 75 c. 

Paul: a Servant of Jestis Christ lamo, cloth, $1 .00. 

Old Testament Heroes* 8 vols., 12 mo, cloth, each, 
$1.00; the set, boxed, $8.00. 

Abraham. Elijah. Jeremiah. Joshua. ^ 

David. Israel. Joseph. Moses. 

The Expository Series. 1:2mo, cloth, each $1.00; 
the set, boxed, $4.00. 

Tried by Fire. The Way Into the Holiest. 

Christ in Isaiah. The Life and Light of Men. 

The Christian Life Series. iSmo, cloth, each, 30 c. 
The Shepherd Psalm Through Fire and Flood. 
Christian Living. The Glorious Lord. 

The Present Tenses Calvary to Pentecost. 
The Future Tenses Key Words to the Inner Life. 

*♦* The first four also issued in flexible, decorated cloth, 
1:6mo, each, 50 c.; the set, boxed, $2.00. 

Addresses. 1:2mo, paper, each, 15c.; cloth, each, 
net, 30 c. 

Meet for the Master's Use A Castaway 
The Secret of Guidance Light on Life's Duties 

Saved and Kept. Long 1:6mo, cloth, 50 c. 

Cheer for Life's Pilgrimage. Long !6mo, cloth, 50 c. 

Peace, Perfect Peace. iSmo, cloth, 25 c. 

The Psahns. Notes and Readings. 1 Smo, cloth, 60 c 

Envelope Series of Booklets. Packets Nos. i and a, 
each containing 12 Tracts, assorted, net, 20 c. 

Choice Extracts. 24mo, paper, each, 5 c.; per doz. 

net, 33 c.: 1:6ino, paper, 15 c. 

WORKS BY HANNAH 
WHITALL SMITH 

ThEJ OHRISTIA-N'S 

Secret of- a 
Happy Life 

No. 02. Cloth. 75c. 

No. 03. Cloth, gilt ed- 
ges. $1.00 

No. 04. White cloth, 
boxed. $1.25 

Popular edition. 1:2mo, 
cloth. 50 cents. 

The Handy Classic 
Edition. 1:6mo. 

No. 3. Cloth, gilt ed- 
ges. 85 cents. 
No. 3^. Decorated white 
vellum, gilt edges. 
Ji.oo. 

No. 4. French morocco 
seal. 81.50. 

No. 12. Best German 
calf, embossed. $2.25. 

No. 14. Best German 
calf, padded. 82.50. 

Nos. 4, 12 and 14 are gilt 
edges, round corners, 
boxed. 

Swedish Edition. 

1:2mo, cloth. 75 cents, 
Danish-Norwegian. 

1:2mo, cloth. 75 cents. 
German Edition. 

1:2mo, cloth. 75 cents. 

H. TV". S. LlBRAKY. 

5 Volumes. lamo, cloth. 
$4-50. 

Comprising 

The Christian's Se- 
cret OF A HAPPr 
Life, 

The Open Secret. 

Every-Day Religion. 

Old Testament Types 
and Teaching. 

Frank: the Record of 
A Happy Life. 

OhILiD OtriiTTTRHl 

Or, The Sciencb of 
Motherhood 
1:6mo, decorated boards. 
30 cents. 

EifVELOPB Series 
OF Tracts, 

Chapters from "The 
Christian's Secret of 
A Happy Life." 
Net, per dozen, 20 cents. 

Princeton Theological Seminanr Libraries 

1 1012 01236 3380 

Date Due 

da s ■ • . 

'(kCUL\1 

Ui 

J4 

.pq-1>' 

Wz 1 1' 

?t 

' 

m 12-59 

■NO 2 5 '5? 

Mark 2 6 '54 

fcAV -*..-., 

MY 1 4 '5^ 

iiv *% 1 *r 

a 

Ml ^J^'5- 

1 

rn^rnrn^ 

► 

iiiiY ■■aww 

-> 

i<0}i,1:4^ 

'^^' 

P 

. ..^-^ 

t 

f) 

II! 

