May shine as brightly as it did before—

Its light seems dim to me! Those emerald fields,

And crested hills, and undulating slopes.

The shady groves, and softly-murmuring streams,

Where once, with joyous steps, I loved to rove,

A thousand scenes and images recall

Of happier hours irrevocably gone;

While Faithful memory (sad chronicler

Of bygone bliss) invests the retrospect

With all but living truth. The melody

Of cherish'd voices seems to linger there;

Each sylvan footpath has its tear to claim,

And tale of buried love. Each rivulet

Warbles the music of some fond delights

Ne'er to return again. Once how I loved

To mark the changing year! each varying season

Revolving bliss. The winter's blazing hearth,

When the wild storm was reveling without,

Endearing all the more a cherish'd home.

But now in vain it wastes its crackling mirth

On the lone heart. More apposite appears

That sweeping tempest, rioting at will,

Wing'd with the thunder—in its wild career

Bearing destruction—Nature's bosom strewn

With trophies of its might. And yet, methinks,

Its burden'd sighs and moanings seem to lend

The broken heart a sympathy, which oft

A cold and selfish world denies! Or, when

The waning season's devastating blasts

Of rude continuance, made the eye to long

For the return of spring, how once I loved

To watch the footsteps of the new-born year!

The Earth (long sepulchred) emerging from

The Grave of Winter, and her winding-sheet

Of snow exchanging, to be deck'd anew

In emerald robes of renovated life.

The warbling choristers of wood and grove

That sung so late their plaintive Elegies,

As if Chief-Mourners o'er her Tomb, again

Vocal with praise! Ah! sadly, strangely sounds

To the bereaved heart such symphony!

These tuneless melodies by hill and dale,

Of pensive sorrow latent chords awake,

Which make the bosom powerless to respond

To Nature's joy! Where is the voice whose music

Was more to me than all the world beside 1

The noonday sun his dazzling luster pours,

These winged choristers now tune their notes

Around that Grave! The bursting loveliness

Of the incipient year, seems but to mock

The desolated spirit, which is destined

To know no spring-time. Universal nature

Starts from her slumber. But there is one sleep

Too deep to be disturb'd. One Ear remains

Closed to the summons! While th' imprison'd

Earth

Bursts from her wintry dungeon, where the storm

And tempest (gloomy warders) guarded her,

This stem Custodier of captive millions

Alone denies surrender! Spring may clothe

The Churchyard's sacred sod with fresher verdure,

Or lend her glistening dews (expressive tear-drops)

To mingle their mute sympathy, and wail

Life's tender blossoms blighted in the bud;

But her reanimating voice in vain

Evokes the ashes slumbering underneath!

"Oh! happy peasant! When thy daily task

Of weary toil is over, how I envy

Thy cheerful step and artless rustic strains,

(Faithful exponents!) oft, as homewards tending

On Summer eve, to meet the joyous welcome

To affluence oft denied—the mirthful glee

Of an unbroken circle—word unknown

In many a lordly hall and proud demesne."

But hush these plaintive musings—all thy tears

Cannot weep back the buried! True, at times

Nature expression to her brooding grief

Must be permitted. Cold indeed the heart

That would presume the tribute to refuse

Of friendship's tenderness to friendship's worth,

And libel it unmanliness to mourn!

There is a sacred luxury in tears

None but the lacerated bosom knows.

If Stoical philosophy forbid

Their gentle flow, go mark at Bethany

The wondrous tear-drops of the Man of Sorrows.

Mourner, be this thy warrant, "Jesus Wept!"

Yet be it thine to check superfluous grief;

And, if the pensive spirit love to linger

On treasured recollections, waste not thoughts,

Indulge not vain regrets, on happiness

Beyond recall; but read emphatic lessons

(For ever reading, yet how hard to learn!)

On Earth's delusive pleasures—airy bubbles

Dancing their little moment on the stream,

Then vanishing for ever;—plants which fade

(Like the recorded gourd of Nineveh)

Just when most needed; breeding their own worm,

And, in their freshness, yielding to decay!

Go! estimate amid the humbling wrecks

Of broken cisterns and of blighted joys,

The worth of the vain world which has deceived

thee.

Strange, that it should so long with Siren voice

Have lullaby'd thy spirit, weaving dreams

Of visionary bliss around thy path,—

Baseless enchantments, ne'er to know fruition!

The World! 'Tis but a synonyme for change.

As well recline thy head upon the surge,

The ever-varying billow. Like the Dove

Which, of old, track'd a wilderness of waves,

With weary pinion and with wailing cry,

Roaming the waste to find a leafy bough

Whereon to set its foot; so does the Soul

(Pluming immortal pinions for the flight)

Traverse the world's tumultuous sea in vain

To find a resting-place — " It findeth none!"

Life is one scene of Tempest! There may be

Lulls in the sweeping storm—the alternations

Of cloud and sunshine; but no more than gleams:

Not the true luster of the fixed star;

Rather the fitful meteoric glare,

One moment dazzling with its lurid light,

The next all dark, and, by the power of contrast,

Darkness more sensible! E'en when the cup

Of life is fullest, is it not enough

To mar its brightest hour of festive joy

(As did the characters of living fire,

Which gleam'd of old amid the revelries

Of Chaldee's lords) — the possibility

That Death may soon, the certainty he must

At some time come, and write his Mene Tekel

Upon the clay-built walls? The tie to life

How frail! There is, between us and the grave,

Nought but a breath! Today the bark may spread

Her canvas to the gale; all may presage

A prosp'rous voyage, fann'd by gentle zephyrs.

One creaking plank the morrow may reveal!

Seal'd is her doom; the starting timber yields,

And down she sinks into the eddying wave,

A shatter'd wreck! Oh! whither shall we flee,

'Mid the convulsion of these thick'ning storms

(This heaving ocean of vicissitude),

To find some quiet haven of repose

Safe from the tempest shock? Lo! from an Ark,

Riding triumphant o'er the angry deep,

Accents of love proceed! It is the voice

Of an unchanging God, changeless alone

Amid all change! Oh, blessed hiding-place!

As louder raged the hurricane of old.

And mightier was the flow of gushing waters

On a submerged Earth, the higher rose

Upon the bosom of the foaming surge,

Proof to the roar of elemental war,

The Patriarch's ark; so, Christian Mourner! safe

Within thy Cov'nant Shelter, wave on wave

May roll successive over thee, as if

The rifled fountains of the deep were suffer'd

To riot at their pleasure; but each billow

Uplifts thee farther from the Shores of Time

Nearer thy God; and as behind thou leav'st

A devastated Earth, Faith elevates

Above the wrecks of sublunary bliss,

And brings thee to the golden gates of Heaven!

Oh! selfish, tears! who would unglorify

The Sainted Pilgrim? His unruffled bliss

Disturb, and pluck the crown from off his brow,

To bring him back to earth? "We sorrow not

As those who have no hope."— Fallen he has

"Asleep in Jesus!" pillow'd on the bosom

Of uncreated Love! basking for ever

Beneath the sunshine of Jehovah's smile.

Sorrows all ended—wiped from every eye

The ling'ring tear-drop—immortality

Begun; a golden harp, and sparkling crown,

And palm unfading; with Immanuel's praise

The tongue seraphic — (ever-deep'ning anthems

Of which imagination cannot catch

The distant echo!) Shall the selfishness

Of earthly sorrow interrupt that song,

Or break that holy rest ?" Asleep in Jesus!"

(What music in the words!) Hark to the strain

In gentle cadence stealing from the skies:—

"Mourners! why shed for me mistaken tears? If ye did love me, ye would now rejoice, Because I said, I go unto my Father!"

Wondrous transition in life's closing hour!

The burden'd Pilgrim of his Cross released,

And carried to his Crown! Upon a world

Of woe, Earth's curtain falling, to arise

Anew on realms of glory! Who, with heart

Unmoved, can gaze upon the solemn scene

Of nature's dissolution? Who forget

Those moments — more like hours — of dread

suspense,

When, seated with a bursting tide of anguish

By the toss'd pillow of some loved one's couch,

Watching the herald symptoms of the tomb

Fast gathering around! The Lamp of Life

Is feebly flickering; upon the brink

Of a receding world the Spirit hovers;

The sand-glass hastens to its final grain!

'Tis the last struggle! Yet, oh! can it be 1

Nature recoils from the sad inference!

Fallacious hope still clings—but clings in vain—

To every beat of the exhausted pulse!

It is—it is too true! The conflict's o'er

Mourner! that moment's pang of agony

Tongue ne'er can tell, when call'd, with trembling

lips,

A sad farewell to lisp! thy spirit lone

Drifting on life's rude sea a shatter'd wreck!

Yet tell me what thy spirit first assuaged,

When the fresh torrent of thy grief had spent

Its rolling tears 1 Say, was it not to soar

Upon the wings of faith, and hear the voice—

Silent on earth—uniting in the songs

Of Heav'n1? That Saint has wept his final tear—

Heaved his last pang! — Earth's closing draught

of sorrow

Has been exhausted; open'd have these eyes

Upon the glories of a tearless world!

The ear insensible to earthly sounds

Has caught celestial melody, and Death

Has proved the harbinger of endless bliss, —

The Birthday of Eternity! The hour

Which marks the close of his existence here,

In truth, the Christian's life (as charter'd heir

And denizen of Immortality),

Begins. And if we festive keep the day

Of the frail body's entrance into life,

And earthly friends are gather'd in to offer

Their joyous gratulations, shall it be

With tears we celebrate the natal hour

Of the undying spirit, entering

A Sinless, Deathless, Sorrowless for-ever?

Earth may indulge in tears, but Heaven has none.

The doleful sackcloth'd chamber may resound

With lamentation; but that sad farewell

Has waken'd up Jubilee on high;

And the glad accents burst from every tongue:—

"Welcome an heir of Immortality!"

Bereaved Mother! mourning o'er the loss Of a departed child—a Flower soon pluck'd (But not too soon for glory), which distil'd Celestial fragrance on thy path below, Weep not! but let thy envied boast be this— "1 am the parent of a ransom'd Saint!" Bright Beacon-light, set on the Heavenly shore, To which in many a deep, dark night of sorrow,

Oft thou may'st turn thine eye; its hallow'd radiance

Cheering thy shatter'd bark across the waves

Betwixt thee intervening and the haven

Of thine eternal rest! Thrice sacred tie!

That Spirit, which delighted while on earth,

Like the magnetic needle to its pole,

To point thee oft to Jesus, still directs

To the same glorious Source of heavenly love,

Of joy in sorrow, victory in death!

Oh! is it no incentive when thou think'st

That in the lustrous crowd of Witnesses

Which line the battlements on high, are those

Who lighted once with their perennial smile

This wilderness—still from their lofty seats,

Stooping to woo us with their crowns of bliss?

The Bride says, "Come!"—A sweetly-mingled

voice

Of sainted Parents — Brothers, Sisters—Friends,

Stealing in holy music from the skies

(In the soft whispers of celestial love),

And telling, though they " cannot come to us,"

There is a meeting-place in brighter climes,

Which knows no parting!

To that ransom'd one, The "why" and "wherefore" of God's mystic dealings,

Already is unfolded: That which clothed

An earthly home in sadness, will to him

Radiant be now with cov'nant love; great ends

And righteous purposes therein reveal'd,

Almost by intuition, which will give

New matter and new theme for endless praise!

While we, short-sighted mortals, "through a glass

Darkly beholding," often thus exclaim:

"Great God! thy judgments are a mighty deep!"

Oh! as the glorified behold His ways

Seen in the Mirror of Eternity,

It is the golden harp with bolder hand

To sweep, and swell the chorus of the Skies,

"All Holy! Holy! Holy! is the Lord!"

But if the Spirit's blessedness be such, What of the body?—mortal tenement (Mortal and frail), yet loved—oh! yes, how loved! Each feature pencill'd as with living light On the Soul's tablets ineffaceable, Smiles that can never die! Say, can it be

That all now left of these is memory 1

Say, as thou stood'st amid the crowd of Mourners

Around the silent grave, busied each eye

Writing with tears a deeper epitaph

Than human hand e'er wrote or chisel traced J

When the descending earth (as if it join'd

With hollow voice to chaunt the requiem)

Drew the dull echo from the coffin-lid,

Proclaiming that the "dust had now return'd

To dust!" Say, was that death-sound a farewell

That closed your eyes for ever on the form

You cherish'd once so fondly? — God forbid!

That crumbling framework crumbles but to live!

Immanuel's blood, which bought the Soul, has paid

The ransom of the body. Does not faith

The startling notes anticipate—the trump

Which is to wake the echoes of the world,

And from their mansions, mold'ring in cold clay,

Evoke the slumb'ring myriads? The dust

Of ages lives !" With Immortality

The mortal's clothed," and " swallow'd up is Death

In Victory!" The Body "sleeps," yet not

In an eternal night—(cheerless extinction

That knows no morn!) — But like the chrysalis

Lying embedded in its torpid shell,

Escaping winter storms to burst anew

With wings expanded in the glorious light

Of an unclouded Summer; from the flowers

Which bloom unfading loveliness, to cull

Immortal fragrance! Say not, then, that o'er

The dying moments of thy Friend was wept

A last adieu, and that the heavy word

"Farewell!" was burden'd with' the awful

thought,—

"This parting is for ever." Say not, there

Thou didst receive the closing look of love;

And that the grasp which told of an affection

Death could not quench, was to be felt no more!

No! for these clay-cold lips with deathless smiles

Shall be relighted, and these rayless eyes!

And with a glorious similitude

Each feature shall remind thee of earth's love,

With this distinction, that they cannot fade!

Thine ears, once more, shall listen to the voice

Whose music soothed thee oft below, attuned

For higher themes and loftier minstrelsy;

Hand link'd in hand, climbing the upward steep

Of Zion hill, with mutual joy recounting

Jehovah's dealings, since the day which sever'd

Earth's bonds of love. But, oh! the rapt'rous bliss,

To think these bonds can now no more be broken!

Exulting in espousals which can know

No dissolution; underneath the throne

Bathed in the full-orb'd glory of your God!

I love to think of this identity

Between the Saint on earth and Saint in heaven.

That soul and body (only glorified

And liberate from sin) shall rise the same

As once they moved while here! Each holy trait

Which may adorn the character below, —

The tenderness and love of guileless nature,—

Shall not be lost, but made susceptible

Of infinite progression, shall attain

Their full development. That sacred glow

Of sensibility which shed on earth

A halo round the spirit:—warm emotions,

Once lavish'd on the creature of a day, —

Shall with increasing fervor gravitate

Towards the great Creator! Intellect

With energies immortal, fathoming

Perfections infinite—Redeeming Love!

Uniting in the anthem-peal, whose thunders

Ten thousand times ten thousand voices swell, "Worthy the Lamb!"

Repose, then, Precious clay! Thou art in safer custody than mine, The purchase of atoning blood! What though The sods of earth now cover thee, and rage The elements around thee! Angels watch The sleeping dust; nay. more, Omnipotence Is th' invisible Guardian of thy tomb! Jesus! The Mighty Conqueror of Death, Who felt its pow'r and pluck'd its sting away, Drying our tears, addresses us in words Which glow with immortality: "Fear not! For I am He that liveth and was dead, Behold! I am alive forevermore; And in my hand retain the Keys of Death!" Then looking forward through the dim perspective Of this dark Vale of weeping, let the eye Rest on the splendors of that cloudless morn, When the Archangel's pealing notes shall startle A slumb'ring earth; the Sea and Land restore At the loud summons what they hold in trust, And o'er a renovated world resound The paeans of Eternal Victory!

Oh! Blessed Solace! 'Tis a Father's rod—

No rod of wrath, but of unchanging love.

No stroke inflicted which He could have spared!

Infinite Wisdom, has with Love combined

To make the blow accomplish—and no more—

Its salutary End. A Father's rod!

The thought represses ev'ry falling tear,

Checks ev'ry murmur, mitigates each pang.

Unerring parent! — Mourner! can you doubt

His Faithfulness? Then look to Calvary!

Behold that bleeding, dying Lamb of God!

'Twas love for Thee that sent Him from His

throne,

The bosom of Paternal love (whereon

His head was pillow'd from Eternity),

And nail'd Him there!' Twas love for Thee evoked

The fearful summons from the lips of Justice:

"Awake, O sword!" and the avenging weapon

Refused to slumber in its sheath, till drench'd

In blood to which Divinity gave worth!

Omnipotence Itself (to speak with awe)

Could, of supreme affection, give no pledge

Higher than this. And dare we entertain

The thought, that He, whose nature and whoso

name

Is Love— could send us one superfluous pang,

Impose a needless burden, or permit

The thorn to pierce, He knew would pierce in

vain?

That Cross becomes the blessed guarantee

That all is needed! Mercy infinite

Prevents one drop from mingling in the cup

Which could have been withheld. Thou God of

Love!

Vouchsafe us grace to bow beneath Thy Rod; And breathe (although it be through burning tears,

And half-choked utterance) — " Thy will be done!"

"Even so, Father! for it seemeth good

To Thee!"—And, oh! forbid that whatsoe'er

Thy Wisdom may appoint, should from our hearts

Draw one repining or rebellious sigh.

"I will be dumb, and open nbt my mouth,

Because Thou didst it!"—and it must be well— "Although Thou slay me, yet I'll trust in Thee!"

Oh! Holy Man of Sorrows! dare I breathe One murmuring sentence? What this Cross of mine

Beside that Cross Thou didst endure for me?

A few brief tears and transient sufferings

Compose my sum pf trials; but Thy woes

Claim, as exponents, Mighty drops of Blood!

Unanswerable challenge from the lips

Of the Almightiest of all Sufferers,

"Was ever any sorrow like to Mine 1"

Afflicted Mourner! bitter though the cup

Which thou art call'd to drink—" Consider Him"

Who drain'd the wine-cup of His Father's wrath;

Whilst from His anguish'd Soul was wrung the cry

Which robed the Sun in sackcloth, and made Earth

Affrighted heave convulsive to her core,

As if her pillars trembled to support

The Cross where hung her Maker! What are

The complex suff'rings of a suffering world?

Dust in the balance when compared to this!

Mournful howe'er thy history, although

'Tis written (like the plaintive prophet's roll)

In characters of mourning and of woe,

Telling of rifled households—aching hearts—

The tear scarce dried when call'd to flow again; —

Yet, what thy gloomiest seasons, when compared

With the Cimmerian darkness which impall'd

His agonized bosom?—when the Sun

Of Deity was shrouded in eclipse,

And hid the countenance which from Eternity

Beam'd love ineffable! Oh, Child of God!

Ne'er can there issue from thy quiv'ring lips

The anguish'd cry which once arose from His—

"My God! why thus hast Thou forsaken Me?"

Yes, Mourner! thou hast still thy Cov'nant God. Die whoe'er may, He Lives! — That thought is bliss!

Amid the ruins of thine Earthly joys,

This portion still survives — Omnipotence!

And surely, with a portion such as this,

Thou need'st no other! Blessed compensation!

When the Eternal God the cistern shivers,

That He, the blessed Fountain-head, may come

To take its place, and be the "All in all!"

Behold, there sits upon the throne of Heaven A sympathizing " Kinsman!" Not a pang Can rend thy bosom, but He felt the same! In all thy sufferings, think that Jesus suffer'd!" In all thy tears, remember "Jesus Wept!" Rejoice—the pulses of that Mighty Heart Upwards in glory, vibrate to thine own Responsive; and though inaccessible He sits enthroned, and myriad ransom'd ones, Casting their blood-bought crowns before His feet, Swell the loud anthem, "Worthy is the Lamb!" Vet undergoes no change that Heart of Love, Nor, 'mid the blaze of glory, can forget One Pilgrim Sufferer! Those eyes that shed O'er human grave a flood of human tears, Still look with pity on this desert world; And Bethany's Chief Mourner still is thine!

Go! search the catalog of human woes, And say what Cross there can be laid on thee, The Man of Sorrows felt not? Calumny— Reproach—Ingratitude—the death of loved— The treachery of trusted followers— Faithless desertion of His tried disciples,

When needed most. Behold Him forced to beg

A cup of Water from the profligate

He ransom'd with His blood! See Poverty

His orrly birthright! Houseless wanderer!

Oft His unpillow'd head denied repose.

While foxes had their holes — the birds their

nests —

Oft was the mount His home, His couch the sod,

His canopy the Sky! — Behold His Soul,

Bowing in anguish underneath a woe

Tongue cannot tell, when o'er him burst a cloud

Surcharged and blacken'd with His " Father's"

wrath!

Behold Him nail'd in anguish to the Tree!

Mark the convulsive throb—the closing eye —

The quiv'ring lip — and the expiring groan!

Messiah Dies !— Is not the hour of death

Thus sanctified by Death's great Conqueror,

Who, as he vanquish'd, felt Himself the sting

He died to pluck away? Who, then, can dread

To meet the foe their Lord hath overcome 1

Who on the willows of the grave can hang

His Harp disconsolate % Tuned are its chords

By this Almighty Sufferer, to words

Whose sweetest melody in this consists,

That He That Path Has Trod! — " Yea, though

the Vale

Of death alone I tread—(yet not alone,

For Thou art with me) — I shall fear no ill;

Thy rod and staff shall comfort me!"

I love

To think, as King of kings, upon the Throne

Of Universal Empire seated is

The God-Man Mediator! —With the Roll

Of Mystic Providence committed safe

Into HIS hands! In all His vast domain

Nothing too great to be beyond His sway,

Nothing too mean to be beneath His care!

While it is He who wheels in realms of ether

Worlds upon worlds; gives to the wand'ring

comet

Its tortuous course, tracking immensity,

In cycles measuring a thousand years;

'Tis He who "feeds the ravens when they cry,"

Pencils the hue of ev'ry desert flower;

Its summer verdure upon ev'ry blade

Of grass bestows; of ev'ry forest leaf

The fall He watches; and of ev'ry pulse

He marks the beat! The swarming myriads

In boundless space each movement owe to Him,

From the small insect fluttering in the breeze,

Up to the waving of the Angels' wings

Before the Throne! Away! ye votaries

That raise your altar to an " Unknown God!"

Ye deify as Chance and Accident,

And call His will "inexorable fate!"

There is no chance-work in the oracle

Of Righteous Heaven! — Each high behest comes

forth

The Ordination and Supreme decree

Of Wisdom, Love, and Mercy infinite!

The Parent mourns his Child's untimely end

With aching heart; — the idol of his bosom

Snatch'd from him in the twinkling of an eye!

Was it the lightning-flash that struck him down?

Traced was the lightning's winged path by God!

Was it the waves engulph'd him 1 Every billow

Roll'd at the bidding of Omnipotence!

Was it disease that hurried him away?

The worm unseen which sapp'd the treasured

gourd,

Was sent by Him! This is the history

Of every death: "The suffering God ordain'd—

Prepared the sable shroud—and dug the grave!"

Our times are in His hands, and at the hour

He thinks befitting, but no sooner, He

Our Breath recalls.—'Tis His prerogative

To do with us and ours as pleaseth Him;

We could not be in safer custody.

Jesus our Shepherd! — choosing us our pasture,

Selecting with unerring faithfulness

And tender love, for each their earthly lot.

Left to ourselves, how oft might we incline

To choose the evil and refuse the good!

Christian! rejoice that though His way may seem

Often mysterious, as He led His Saints

Of old, He leads thee still, in faithfulness.

Trust Him in darkness! He will vindicate

All his procedure, and receive at last

The homage from ten thousand thousand tongues,

"Righteous art Thou! O Lord!"

Exalted Jesus! Wielding Creation's scepter, unto whom Can I commit my everlasting all,

If not to Thee 1 How wondrously uniting

Divinity with Human tenderness!

While myriad Angels from Eternity

Adored Thee, fearless in Thine arms there smiled

The helpless Babe! Amid a varying world,

Thyself alone continuing unchanged;

Among the faithless, Faithful to the last!

"Thou, for Adversity the Brother born,"

"The Friend that cleaveth closer than a Brother!"

His not a formal world's cold interchange

Of sympathy (unworthy of the name);

Into our every sorrow He can enter

With sensibilities none else can feel.

Oh! blessed thought! Immanuel's heart combines

The Might of Godhead with Humanity

In all its tenderness. The God who counts

The number of the stars, can also count

The number of my sorrows, for Himself

Has felt them all! The mightiest of all Beings

Is thus the kindest! I can upwards look

In trembling transport to His throne, and say,

"God! yet my Brother! Brother! yet my God!"

God Is a Jealous God, and cannot give

His Glory to another! Earthly love

Must be subordinate to that of Heaven,

Or else must die! The throne of the affections

Must be surrender'd to the King of kings,

And can admit no rival occupant;

Omnipotence must legislate supreme,

And be the All in All! The earthly Gourd

It is permitted thee to cherish fondly,

But not too fondly;—to be glad for it;

But warning accents from the blighted booth

Of Nineveh, forbid thee to be glad

"Exceedingly." If treasured as the pledge

Of thy Creator's love, then all is well;

The boon attains the end for which bestow'd,—

The Giver glorified! But when it tends

To alienate affections which are His,

Seal'd is its doom, and bows the cumberer

Before the winged sentence, "Cut it down!"

How oft, in one brief day, the canker-worm

Has thus perform'd its work, and round the bower

Of earthly bliss lie strewn the sad rebukes

Of overweening love—the wither'd blossoms

Cherish'd too fondly! Traitor to thy trust!

Thou didst receive thy Gourd to draw thee

upwards;

It wedded thee to earth, and therefore fell!

Thou must be taught by the severest lessons,

That God permits of no competing love:—

"The idol must be utterly abolish'd!"

How many bleeding bosoms have been open'd

By these clay-idols, Dagons that must fall

Before the ark! Unless we rather choose

(Fearful alternative !) that God give place

To these our Dagons, and thus forfeit Heav'n

For some poor child of dust. Christian! rejoice,

That the decision of this question lies

Not with thyself; or else, alas! how oft

Imperishable interests would be made

Do homage at some shrine of creature-love!—

The altar kiss of some clay-deity,

And barter immortality for Time!

Thy Gourd has fallen! Yet had its kindly shade

Been spared for future years to bless thy bower,

It would have lived but only to decay.

Those bursting buds and blossoms, early pluck'd

(Say not too early), would at last have dropp'd

As wither'd flowers. Let the Great Husbandman

Select the time to take His own; and if

For transplantation He may deem it fit,

Before the chilling frosts of life have nipp'd it,

Would'st thou retain it longer in the blasts

Of an ungenial clime? Be thine to praise Him,

That, in selecting for the severing blow,

He took the ripest for Himself. The tree

Mark'd for the ax was not the cumberer—

The leafless, fruitless, unproductive one,

Fit fuel for the fire: No—It is spared

(In mercy spared), to see if, peradventure,

The sharp incisions of the pruning-knife

May fructify its boughs. 'Tis the exotic

Which has been taken to a kindlier soil,

To bloom unfading in far happier climes,

Where tempest is unknown! Think of the storms

That tender sapling has in love been saved;

Although, perchance, unfretted with a cloud

Up to the hour it fell; who could predict

What might be brooding in the far horizon, —

What travailings and sorrows might be pent

Within the womb of Time 1 Who could foretell

That ere tomorrow's sun had run his race,

Some hurricane, now slumb'ring, forth might

speed

In giant might, its footsteps track'd with woe,

Blighting all loveliness; reminding us

That cloudless sunshine trusted cannot be

On this side Heav'n 1

Then weep not; but alike.

Adore a "taking" and a "giving" God.

Deem not these blossoms prematurely pluck'd.

Let those who make this fleeting earth their all,

And its horizon bound their happiness,

Talk of untimely Graves! No flower can drop

Too soon, if ripe for glory. Early pluck'd,

Is early bliss. If the great clock of time

Has in life's dawn of morning toll'd its knell,

And number'd earthly hours, it hastens Heaven.

An early death-bed is an early Crown!

Now unfulfill'd one wish alone remains,—

That those beloved on earth, endear'd by bonds

Defying dissolution, left behind

To rough the winter's blast, may soon arise,

The deathless glory of the soul to share,

"Not lost, but gone before."

Often methinka

Upon the striking contrast in the way

That Earth and Heaven the closing scene of death

Regard. On Earth— a spectacle of tears!

Bedew'd each cheek, and swollen every eye;

In speechless agony, each knee is bent

Round the saint's couch, importunate for life,

While still life's pulses beat. In Heaven— a

prayer

Is utter'd also for the dying one

By mightier than mortal Intercessor;

Immanuel pleads; but His is not the prayer

For an extension of the transient breath;

He pleads for life immortal as His own.

While from below ascend the burden'd sighs

Of weeping relatives, 'tis thus He prays:

"Father, I Will!" (Oh! blessed thought! it is

The will of dying, ever-living love!

Who would not trust it,' if they cannot trace ?)

"Father, I Will this dying sufferer

I have redeem'd, be with Me where I am,

To share the glory Thou hast given Me."

The prayer is heard! Omnipotence responds —

"Son, Thou art ever with Me, all I have

Is Thine." To execute the embassy,

Eager, a glorious retinue attend.

"Go, Angels— speed ye to the dying pillow,

And waft the spirit into Abraham's bosom!"

Say, Mourner, wouldst thou have preferr'd taat heard

Had been the prayer of Earth, or that of Heaven?

Eternal bliss deferr'd, or realized?

The Cross continued, or the Kingdom won?

Warfare protracted, or eternal rest?

Keep in abeyance selfish love, and say

Wouldst thou arrest these bright celestials,

As up they bear their trophy to the skies,

And bring him back to earth? Couldst thou entreat

The Righteous Intercessor to revoke

This wondrous " Will," and at the gate of Heaven,

When Victory was bursting on his lips,

Recall the sainted Pilgrim, to resume

The din of Battle, and the Vale of Tears?

Your fiery trials, followers of Him Who was "the Man of Sorrows," deem not strange. I" No Cross, no Crown! '?)the motto still remains Of every Pilgrim; and the oracle Of Heaven is unrepeal'd: —" Deny thyself, Take up thy Cross, and daily follow Me." 'Tis in affliction's furnace, as of old, He loves to choose His people; and although These desolating trials may appear To the unthinking crowd inexplicable, Like the mysterious column, whose red glow Illumed of old the desert wilderness To cov'nant Israel, but lent no ray Of guiding light to the pursuing hosts Of Egypt— so before a wond'ring world, Mystic and dark, the dealings of our God Are bright with mercy to His chosen ones,

(44)

The emanations of eternal love.

Yes! Blessed Lord, Thy preciousness and grace

Ne'er can the Christian estimate, till brought

To taste the bitter cup of earthly sorrow.

Thy Promises how wondrous! Like the stars

Sparkling as jewels on the brow of Night,

Invisible until the orb of day

Sinks in his couch. So not until the Sun

Of fondly-treasured comforts disappear,

The firmament of Truth a galaxy

Displays of brilliant promises, which, like

The glow-worm, shine most brightly in the dark.

Bereaved Mourner! call'd to take thy stand Amid the scorching flames, didst thou not see "One in the Furnace like the Son of God," Whose gracious presence caused thee pass unscathed

The fiery ordeal? Approach'd, perchance, Trembling with awe, like those who "fear'd to enter"

The cloud on Tabor; yet, on ent'ring it, What sights and sounds burst on their ravish'd senses!

A Glorified Redeemer!—vista-views

Of bliss! — each tongue exclaiming, "Lord, 'tis

good 1

For us to linger here!" So oft when call'd

To climb the Mount of Trial, hast thou not

Refreshing hours enjoy'd, ev'n in the cloud

That frown'd in terror o'er thee t Did not here

There burst on thee in bright apocalypse

Resplendent visions of redeeming grace,

The antepast of Heaven; and made thee feel

Almost in love with grief, because unfolding

So much more of thy God 1 The countenance

Of earthly relatives may be withdrawn,

As was the voice of the twin delegates

On Tabor's Mount; but, like the " Three," thou hast

Thy Best Friend left. Dissolv'd though human ties,

Jesus along with thee the Mount descends,

Vouchsafing fellowship that knows no change,

And love that cannot die (consoling words !) —

"Lo! 'I am with you, to the end of Time !'"

Fear thou not, then, this Furnace, for HE lights

Not to destroy, but only to refine;

To purify the gold, and purge away

The dross, and fit for glory. Wondrous thought!

The Great Refiner seated by the Fires,

Temp'ring their fury! Few amid the throng

Of ransom'd spirits have not felt their power.

Go upwards: pass along their bright array,

And let the Blood-bought myriads themselves

Bear living testimony. One can tell:

"Once was I ruining my precious Soul;

Eternity was barter'd for the baubles

Of a vain, transient world. God struck me down,

Blighted my prospects, withered up my gourds,

Laid my clay-idols in their mother dust,

And o'er the precincts of a happy home

Spread the eclipse of Death!' Deep call'd to

deep.'

Tear follow'd tear, as wave succeeds to wave;

But 'All is well.' Each trial did but sever

The earthly tie, to rivet me to Heaven—

Shiver'd the reed, to bring me to the Rock,

And give to God Himself the creature's place!"

Another one can tell: "I lov'd my Gold;

Deified Riches—made my idol Mammon:

God wrote its Verdict: 'Gold which perisheth!

It mock'd the hand which grasp'd it; but its loss

Led me to value treasure which no time

Corrodes, nor moth corrupts; laid up in Christ

'Riches unsearchable' beyond the wealth

Of worlds!" Another there can tell: "The Sun

Of Earth too brightly shone, and with false glow

The luster intercepted of a land

Whose atmosphere is love. Upon a couch

Of languishing God laid me; weary days

And nights of pain were mine. Now for each

stroke

I praise Him! It was needful discipline—

To wean my spirit from the shadowy dreams

Of a vain world. The Harp which when on Earth,

Broken with sorrow, hung upon the willows

Tuneless and mute, I now rejoice to sweep

Its new-strung chords, to own the faithfulness

And love which wrung each tear-drop from my

eye!"

Exceptions rare there may, indeed, be found

To this appointed discipline of Heaven.

Some gentle spirit purified for bliss,

Not in the Fire, but by the "still small voice"

Of love, a Jewel for Immanuel's crown

Prepared. Of old, when Salem's Temple rose

In strange majestic silence, "neither hammer

Nor sound of ax, nor other tool, was heard"

Within the stately fabric: So at times

The hammer of affliction scarce the stone

May feel, and yet 'tis polish'd and made meet

For the Great Builder's use; the spirit wafted,

Like Israel's prophet in his car of fire,

Upwards to glory, tasting scarce the pangs

Of human woe! Unwonted case! to reach

The heavenly goal uncover'd with the scars

Of Earthly Battle! Christian Combatant!

The conflict is unchanged. Who would the path

Of suffering avoid his Savior trod,

Or claim immunity from woe, when HE

Attain'd His crown with "garments roll'd in

blood " 1

Nowhere canst thou so magnify thy God

As in the Furnace-fires! Submissive tears

Wrung from the grieved yet unrepining heart,

In silent eloquence proclaim the power

Of Christian faith;—a living evidence

To an ungodly world, that Gospel peace

Is no vague theory. Mourner in Zion!

In this thou hast a mean of glorifying

The Lord who loved thee angels cannot have.

Meek acquiescence is a grace unknown

In Heav'n, where trial enters not. No cup

Of anguish'd sorrow there to drink, no tears

Through which with murmuring lips to breathe,

11 Father, Thy will be done!" Oh, may'st thou not

(If thy submission has one Sinner led

To magnify the grace which thee sustain'd

So wondrously) with humble praise rejoice 1

And, looking forward to Eternity,

Would not thy sorest tribulations prove

Their own best recompence, if, through the years

Of never-ending bliss, one voice were heard

To own that these thy Sorrows, sanctified,

Had proved the means of leading it to Heaven 1

Mine be the Cross, however hard to bear! Oh, shall I not be willing to endure Whate'er my God sees meet? How many plants Before emitting fragrance must be bruised 1 So must the soul. Endure I rather would

The sharpest cuttings of the pruning-knife— Be stripp'd of all I have, than "left alone," Abandon'd Cumberer! Yes, rather far Encounter fiercest hurricanes, than have The bark which bears immortal destinies > Lull'd in the treaeh'rous calm, and suffer'd there To sleep upon its shadows—fearful prelude To an eternal tempest! Welcome storm Which sends the Christian Pilot to his knees, And, in a midnight of tempestuous gloom, Directs the eye of faith, with longing gaze, Upon the Star of Bethlehem! 'Twas not Until the wind roused in tumultuous wrath Gennesaret, the faithless mariners Importunate awoke their sleeping Lord, And forth the fiat of Omnipotence Lull'd every angry wave. Oh! blessed end Of sanctified affliction; brought to call Upon our Heavenly Pilot, and to listen The Almighty Mandate, " Peace; be still!"

This reconciles to every tempest-shock: "Each crested billow wafts me nearer rest!" Safe in that haven which no wave disturbs,

The retrospect of life's disquietudes

Will then unfold a " need be " in each storm,—

Unmingled mercy in each falling tear.

Yes, gracious, precious drops! I grudge not one;

Dimming the eye to a dark land of Shadows,

But bright with sunshine from a tearless world,

Where the same gentle hand which made them

flow

In tenderness shall wipe them all away!

Then shall the lacerating thorn be weaved Amid the dearest laurels of my crown; The brightest gem which sparkles there shall own Affliction's polish; and th' Eternal Song Shall louder, deeper, and still deeper roll By reason of such sorrows, whose existence, Weigh'd in the Scales of Immortality, Shall then appear but light and momentary, ■ And an amount of glory "working out," Beyond what " eye hath seen or heart conceived."

Into.

When through the desert's arid wastes of old

Journey'd the tribes of Israel, with what strains

Of gratitude the fainting thousands hail'd

Elim's twelve fountains! Underneath the shade

Of the umbrageous palm (Nature's own tent)

They bathed their parched brows. From every

tongue

Arose the hymn of praise. The cloudy pillar

Conducted once the parched host beside

One brook less favor'd. Yet, though only one,

Elim's twelve fountains often seem'd forgotten,

While Marah linger'd in ungrateful hearts.

Bereaved Christian! has thy Covenant Ood

Placed thee beside some Marah; caused thee drink

Some stream of earthly woe 1 Say, shall one draught

Of bitter trial bury in oblivion

The record of past mercies— rill on rill

Of providential bounties which were made

To cheer thy path 1 Oh! rather while thou sitt'st

In solitary sadness brooding o'er

Thy brook of Sorrow, let thy mem'ry dwell

On the ten thousand wells of earthly bliss

Which crowd life's retrospect: the Ebenezers,

Each with its own inscription, testifying

To God's unchanging faithfulness and mercy.

Yes; while thy Marah has been only one,

Are not thine Elims many? And instead

Of wond'ring at His dealings, rather wonder

The past should teem with pledges of such love

All undeserved! For if His thoughts had been

As are thy thoughts, His ways as are thy ways,

How different its annals! Oh! if sin

Received its due, thy tears would never dry;

If justice had been laid unto the line,

There had been weeping which eternity

Could ne'er have ended!

Hush'd, then, be thy grief. What, after all, the heaviest of thy pangs 1 There might have beat within thy deathless spirit The pulse of Immortality undone,

And thine awaking from the bed of death

Have been in outer darkness! Pause and think •

Thou might'st have drunk the Marah of despair,

The gall and wormwood mingling in its streams!

Fear not the Marah-fountain, which, in love,

Thy God appoints thee. As His pillar led

The hosts of Israel thither, be assured,

For some high purpose has He brought thee there.

And if thou wouldst, like Israel, transmute

From bitter into sweet this pool of sorrow,

Cast in the Tree of Life! Oh! blessed antidote

To every bitter cup and bitter hour!

Jesus! one ray of Thine approving smile

Can change the gloom of midnight into day,

And make the gate of death the gate of Heaven!

But does no solace still remain to cheer,

Mourner, thine alter'd lot? What! has the scourge,

The besom of destruction, left behind

No earthly comfort to support the heart

So rudely swept 1 And art thou doom'd to sit

Brooding disconsolate amid the dust

And ashes of thy woe 1 Nay; while thou tunest

Thy mournful Lyre to sing in plaintive strains

Of Judgment, thou canst sing of Mercy too! Ne'er does the heart, till wounded, prize its blessings.

One rill has dried, one source (perchance the chief)

Of earthly pleasure suddenly has fail'd;

But streams before unthought of, unobserved

And unacknowledged, claim thy gratitude.

While one beloved tig has been dissever'd,

Are there not hallow'd friendships still surviving,

To mitigate thy sorrows? precious bonds,

Approximating closer by each loss

Of broken links? Are there not many drops

Of mercy mingled in thy draught, enough

To check each rising murmur, and to tell

How much severer might have been thy pangs

Had God so will'd 1 Consider how He might

Have mix'd the cup with anguish, far beyond

The reach of tears—refusing sympathy!

Ah! there are speechless sorrows, cutting wounds,

Too deep for solace! — lacerated hearts

Bleeding in secret over woes they dare not

Confide to earthly ears; and, worst of all,

There is the heaviest of affliction's pangs,

The pang of watching by the dying couch,

At which you dare not feel "To die is gain."

The hopes of Immortality proscribed!

The Spirit enf ring the realities

Of an undone eternity. Dread thought!

A thousand deaths (if the sweet sleep of Saints

Can be so called) is nothing to one such! \

Mourner in Zion, then, be comforted: Thou hast no cause to weep for the departed. Mourn not their loss; rejoice thou in their gain; For they are to be envied who have fallen "Asleep in Jesus." Earthly Jies are broken, Only to draw thee nearer to the Skies, By everlasting cords of sacred love, Leading affection to associate Sweetly in thought a glorified Redeemer With those now at His side! Repose on Him Who still vouchsafes unnumber'd benefits. The Hand that smites is able, too, to heal; And in His very smiting there is all A Father's tenderness. Thy cup is still Full to the brim with blessings infinite; "Double for all thy sins, thou hast received." Adore Him for the past, and for the future

Cheerfully trust Him. Thou hadst but a loan,—

No more; and if the Great Proprietor

Sees meet the boon He lent thee to recall,

Becomes it thee to murmur? Rather own

His undeserved kindness, that thou art

Preserved from day to day, and hour to hour,

The monument of God's forbearing love;

That He has not, ere now, pronounced against

thee

The Cumb'rer's sentence and his awful doom, With righteous vengeance, "Swearing in His wrath

That thou shouldst never enter into Rest!"

Oh! blessed Morn, Creation's Jubilee!

The Bridal hour of a triumphant Church!

Birthday of endless glory! when the roll

Of earthly Providence shall be unfolded

Before a wond'ring Heaven; and '' in Thy light,

O God! we shall see light." The Night of weeping

Lost in the splendors of a perfect Day!

Floods of surpassing luster pour'd upon

Dealings inscrutable! The retrospect

Of life's vicissitudes replete with love

And cov'nant faithfulness. Each burden'd tear

Acknowledged needful discipline! The cloud

Whose black'ning front portended while below

Nothing but angry tempest, proved to be

Surcharged alone with mercy in disguise;

The wheels of Providence revolving naught

But good! Each aspect of Jehovah's ways

Causing the heart to bound with holier joy,

The tongue to thrill with louder notes of praise —

An ever-deepening anthem; like the song

Heard by the Seer of Patmos; as Eternity,

With its unending ages onward rolls,

The Hallelujah, syllabled in whispers,

Increases to a deep harmonious swell—

"The voice of many people;" deeper still—

Till, like "the sound of a Great Multitude;"

And yet still deeper—like the gushing noise

"Of many waters;" till the augmenting chorus

Equals the roar of "mighty thunderings,"

And onward rolls the pealing "Alleluia!

Amen! Omnipotent Jehovah reigns!"

"There shall be No Night there!" Oh, cheer-

ing thought!

No night of Ignorance—which oft on Earth

Gives birth to unbelief, and makes the heart

Refuse to bow submissive to the Rod,

And own its just infliction, because seen

Through a distorted medium! There shall be

No night of Sorrow there; no bleeding hearts;

No sudden blighting of life's fairest prospects:

No chilling penury to freeze its bliss!

Tear-drops all dried, and anguish all forgotten;

Or, if remember'd, only like a dream

Or feverish vision of some sleepless hour;

The recollection of the night of woe

Enhancing all the more the joys of morn!

No night of Death is there; no sever'd ties;

No rifled households, and no sad farewells;

No tear of Widowhood to dim the eye;

No open'd graves. No night of Sin is there;

No more corruptions chaining down the soul,

Hamp'ring its energies, the fertile cause

Of all the suff'rings of a suff'ring world,

Which makes the Christian Pilgrim feel his path,

From first to last, a toilsome battle-field—

No rest till Death discharge him. But in Heaven

The trumpet peal is mute. The warrior there

His armor cast aside — the conflict's done—

The Victory achieved! Faith lost in sight,

And Hope in full fruition! This, for Ever!

Oh, wondrous words! Glory to know no end!

Oceans of Joy, unbounded by a shore!

For Ever! 'Tis Etern Ity !— " the life-time

Of the Almighty!" — Christian, thine existence is

Commensurate with that of God Himself!

One Endless Sabbath—and that Sabbath—Love!

Teach me to live the heir of such a world:

Thankful to bear my Cross for such a Crown;

Content to steer the shatter'd bark of life

To reach a port like this. And though the past-

With warning voice prepares me to expect

The night of trial here; yet still let Faith,

Stretching her eye beyond life's dim horizon,

Rest on the brighter shores, and many mansions,

And better Friend above! Be this my beacon,

Wooing me onwards, buffeting the storm—

"Mourner, there is no night of Trial There!"

But who can dare to lift the hidden veil

Inscrutable, which hides from mortal gaze

That festival of bliss t "Eye hath not seen,

Nor ear hath heard, nor human heart conceived"

Its wonders. God himself the "All in All!"

The focus of a Light ineffable,

To which, the origin and end of all,

Each lesser ray of glory will converge.

The myriad blood-bought worshippers engaged

In pondering His searchless attributes,

Or mystic secrets of Incarnate love.

For, lo! in midst of the Eternal Throne,

Stands there "a Lamb as if it had been slain!"

Its scars and blood-marks eloquently speak

To an adoring Heaven! The ransom'd throng

Scaling its heights and fathoming its deeps,

Unfolding new discoveries of grace

And mercy infinite! The mighty Problem

Still unexplored and inexplorable.

Elicits the confession —" Oh, the depth!"

Oh! come, sweet heavenly dawn! bright day of peace,

A halcyon reign of cloudless, tearless bliss!

One everlasting summer, with no winter!

No killing frosts to mock the reaper's hopes,

Or mar his joyous song! One endless morning,

Stranger to night! Each ransom'd spirit, like

Some peerless orb of light, up climbing high

A boundless firmament, but ne'er attain

Its full meridian! The Tree of Life

Waving immortal fragritnce, and its fruits

Perennial! Each toil-worn warrior

Of earth, his forehead laving with the stream

Which rolls its crystal waters from the Throne

Of God and of the Lamb, there washing off

The blood and dust of battle, and exchanging

The Pilgrim armor for the Pilgrim rest!

Oh, come, thou blessed Haven of repose,

Where not one wave of trouble e'er shall roll.'

How do I wish these gloomy waters pass'd,

To feel secure within thy stormless shelter!

Wave upon wave is sweeping over me,

But, oh! thrice blessed thought, they drive me no'

Amid the quicksands and the eddying currents

I leave behind: each in succession wafts me

Nearer and nearer to that blissful shore.

Lo! I already see the shining cliffs

And glitt'ring Temples in the dim horizon;

I hear the cadence of no earthly music

Fall on my ravish'd Ear! — It is—it is

The anthem peal of glory! thrilling chorus!

As if ten thousand times ten thousand harps

Were strung to form one mighty orchestra,

Waking the Echoes of Eternity!

O God! I cannot listen to the thunders!

Hush'd be the music of my earthly strains,

And let the choirs of Heaven take up the song.

i

This book should be returned to the Library on or before the last date stamped below.

A fine of five cents a day is incurred by retaining it beyond the specified time.

Please return promptly.

