the sandal and washing in the blood that cleanseth from all sin. Let not the necessity \ of repeated and daily ablution discourage I your continuous coming. Come by night, / by day—come with the failure of your holy and with the guilt of your unholy things— come, though you have a thousand times before, wash and be clean. He who washed the feet of His disciples, knew the necessity of repeated cleansing. The Fountain is an Open one for this very purpose. Come without one fear of being upbraided for having come before, or of one chiding for the infirmity or the sin that brings you again.

"So shall your walk be close with God,

Calm and serene your frame;

So pure a light shall mark the road

That leads you to the Lamb."

The relation of this daily feet-washing with our religious progress, is close and essential. A habitual acknowledgment of sin, and a constant recurrence to the Sacrifice that removes it, are among the most powerful as the most precious preservatives in the way of holiness. These are most sanctifying engagements. They keep the heart in close communion with itself, and in closer communion with Christ. They promote wakefulness of conscience, tenderness of spirit, hatred of sin, watchfulness, and humility of walk. And, just as the turf which fringes the fountain and is washed by its spray, always blooms with life and beauty, so the heart that builds its home fast by the Fountain of Calvary will ever exhibit the quickening, sanctifying influence of the blood in its daily and constant application. Would we "walk in newness of life"— would we "walk not after the flesh but after the Spirit"—would we "walk worthy of the vocation wherewith we are called"—would we "walk circumspectly, not as fools "— would we "walk worthy of the Lord, unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God "—in a word, would we walk with Jesus in white, we must bring the Feet daily to Him J to be cleansed, saying to every sinful allurement that would fain turn us from the way of holiness, "I have washed My Feet, how shall I defile them ?" (Song of Sol. 5:3.)

While upon this subject of washing, let me earnestly caution you against the substitution of any other laver whatever for the laver of Christ's atoning blood. The water of baptism, administered either in the unconsciousness of infancy, or to the individual of full age and with consenting will, has no moral efficacy whatever either in changing the recipient from nature to grace, or in effacing from the soul one spot of sin. Awful and fatal delusion! I Awful in those who preach it, fatal to those who believe it! Woe to those who blindly accept this doctrine, and still heavier woe is theirs who daringly and presumptuously propagate it—" teaching for doctrines the commandments of men." Greatly do they err, not knowing the Scriptures. When our Lord said to Peter, " He that is washed needeth not save to wash his feet, but is clean every whit," He referred not to the laver of baptism, but to the laver of His own most precious Blood, j in which whoever is washed, though he were morally black as the Ethiopian, or spotted as the leopard, "is clean every whit'' The believing soul stands before God washed from every sin, and justified from all things. He is

clean every whit. His sins are all and wholly forgiven, his person is fully and for ever justified. "Such were some of you, but ye are washed." Oh marvelous cleansing this! wonderful atonement, precious blood that can wash the sin-dyed, guilt-stained soul "whiter than snow." When Christ affirms this to be the state of every believing soul, He palms upon us no fatal lie, He builds us up in no vain delusion, He mocks us with no shadowy promise or illusive hope. "Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life—is passed from death unto life." Oh, distrust not this great cleansing! Disbelieve not this precious blood. Walk in the holy, happy experience of its daily application by the power of the Holy Ghost. Live upon it, and live it out, in your daily life. Esteem nothing so precious, estimate nothing so costly, regard nothing so reverentially, exalt nothing so highly, deal with nothing so constantly and holily, as the Atoning Blood Of Christ. "The soul that sinneth it shall die;" but "the Blood is the Life of the soul," and that life is Eternal.

The subject of these pages addresses itself pointedly and solemnly to the unconverted, the unwashed. What were the words of Jesus? "If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me." There exists not a greater sin, a crime of deeper dye, a guilt whose turpitude no wordscan describe, than that of neglecting this atonement, despising the blood, and trampling it under your feet as an unholy thing. The blood of Jesus, God's Son, is the divinest, the most costly and precious thing in the universe. It is the only thing that cleanses us from all sin. Imagine, then, what must be the guilt, and what the consequent doom of that man who scorns and rejects Atoning Blood! It is alone the washing of this blood that gives you a part with Christ. It is the blood that gives us union with Jesus —it is the blood which brings us near to God—it is the blood that speaketh, and that speaketh peace to the conscience and pardon to the soul. Apart, then, from this blood, you are unwashed. Your soul is still tainted and darkened and covered with the poison and pollution and guilt of sin. Not one spot of original, and not one stain of actual, sin

is effaced; and you are hurrying to the dread judgment of the great day all covered, all laden, all condemned by sins red like crimson, and countless as the ocean sands. No part with Jesus !—then you are separated from all that is holy, gracious, and saving! No part with Jesus !—then you are enrolled among His foes, and are walking in the counsel of the ungodly, and are standing in the way of sinners, and are sitting in the seat of the scornful. No part with Jesus !—then you must have your part with those of whom it is written, "The fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have Their Part in the lake wMch burneth with fire and brimstone: which is the second death." Are you prepared to accept this as your doom? To burn for ever and ever in quenchless fire —to be gnawed for ever and ever with the undying worm? Awful thought! appalling destiny! Better never to have been born than to live the servant and to die the slave of sin, and then to wear its galling chain unbroken, unfastened, through eternity. But the blood you hitherto have disbelieved and neglected still flows, and still washes the vilest clean. Lose not a moment in applying to its sovereign efficacy. Repent of your sins. Ground the arms of your rebellion against God. Turn ye, turn ye, for why will ye die? If the believer, who is clean every whit, yet needs the daily cleansing of this blood, how deep and imperious must your need be upon whom not one drop of this precious, sin-cleansing blood has yet fallen! Repair, then, to Christ without one moment's delay. Take your sins, great as they are; take your burden, heavy as it is, and in faith plunge into this "fountain, open for sin and uncleanness" wash, and be clean. Once more, remember the words of Jesus—" If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me." Throw yourself upon His pardoning mercy, who will in no wise cast you out.

"O Thou who art yet'without Christ' in the world, 'I've a message from God unto thee 1 Before the last thunders of earth shall be hurled, Jesus whispers, now, ' Come unto me!'

"'Twill soon be too late! but 'yet there is room The Lamb that was slain now appears!

Oh wilt thou abide in perpetual gloom,

And only be washed in His tears!

"King David could weep, but his life he ne'er gave

From sin to set Absalom free!

But Jesus has died—He is 'able to save,'

His blood is availing for thee!"

Should the eye of a sin-distressed reader light upon these pages, let him not limit the sovereign efficacy of the blood of Christ by doubting its power to pardon his sins and remove his guilt. There is no limit to the power of atoning blood but that which an unbelieving distrust of its efficacy presents. There is not a greater sin or deeper turpitude of guilt than a disbelief of the divine nature and sovereign virtue of the blood of the incarnate God. As it is the most costly and precious thing in the universe, so to doubt and reject it is a crime that has no parallel. And yet, oh weeping penitent, oh sin-distressed soul, as the blood of Jesus pardoned the sin and washed away the guilt of sltedding it, so His blood can blot out the crime of having disbelieved its virtue and hesitated to accept its overture. "The blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, Cleanseth us from All sin."

How impressive the example of Jesus in this act! Listen to His words, "Know ye what I have dofie unto you? Ye call me Master and Lord: and ye do well, for so I am. If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet, ye ought also to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example, that ye should do as I have done to you." In another place our Lord inculcated the same spirit of lowly bearing among the saints. "He that is greatest among you shall be your servant." "He that is greatest among you let him be as the younger, and he that is chief as him that doth serve." In the same strain the apostle exhorts, " Let nothing be done through strife or vain glory; but in lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves!' "Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus," (Philippians 2:3-5.) How many of the evils which affect society, still more, how much of the heartburnings and schisms which mar the peace of families and impede the prosperity of churches, are traceable to the non-observance of this precept. What a happy world, what a united household, what a holy Church, were all animated with this spirit, and were all molded in their intercourse by this illustrious example. Thus influenced, we should be ready to undertake any service for Christ, however humble, and to stoop to any office for the saints, however mean.

In a preceding part of this chapter we have dwelt at some length on the existence of pride in the believer. We would close it by remarking that the existence of its opposite—humility—is an essential element of the true Christian. As this is one of the first principles of our Christianity, so it is an ever growing and deepening one. Nothing more closely evidences an advance in the divine life as our growth in humility of mind. The nearer we approach to heaven the lower we grow in the estimate of ourselves. Not long after his conversion, Paul speaks of himself as ttnworthy to be called an apostle. As he advanced farther on in the divine life, he esteems himself less than the least of all saints. But as he approached the time of his departure, on the eve of his martyrdom, he speaks of himself as the chief of sinners. As the fruit ripens for the gather

ing it grows more mellow, so the soul that matures for glory becomes more humble and Christ-like, and is willing not only to wash the saint's feet, but even to be trampled under foot of the saints.

"If'she have washed the sainti feet" was a scriptural and distinctive characteristic of the piety of the early widows, (1 Timothy 5:10.) Why should it be less so now? It will be so, at least in its spirit, in proportion to our real growth in grace. We learri to take the low place as we become more deeply sanctified, ready for any and every work and office the Master may assign us. It is the bough most richly laden with fruit that bends downwards and hangs the lowest. So those Christians who have the richest gifts and are favored with the greatest usefulness think the most meanly of themselves, and hide their gifts and graces and usefulness deepest in the shadow of Christ's cross, and are the best prepared for the lowliest service of love to the saints. "The nettle mounteth on high, while the violet shrouds itself under its own leaves, and is chiefly found out by its fragrance. Let Christians be satisfied with the honor that cometh from God only." Thus wrote that eminent man of God, Manton, his spirit and example presenting a true illustration of his own beautiful and expressive image.

"Lord, if Thou Thy grace impart,

Poor in spirit, meek in heart,

I shall as my Master be,

Rooted in humility.

"Simple, teachable, and mild,

Changed into a little child,

Pleased with all the Lord provides,

Wean'd from all the world besides."

Nor would we fail to remind you that the Lord sometimes employs the sanctified discipline of trial in order to quicken our spiritual sense of the need of daily cleansing. Not the least blessing flowing from affliction is this. We have, perhaps, lived at a distance from the Fountain. The blood has lost its preciousness, the cross its attraction; and we have traveled long and far—if travel we may term it—with the dust upon our sandals, and with the soil upon our feet. Affliction has brought us to a stand-still— has led us to reflection and self-examination, and we are roused to the conviction of the startling fact how much unrepented, unconfessed,uncleansed sin has accumulated, engirdling the heart, encrusting the conscience, clogging and impeding our feet in their heavenly way. Oh, how close to the Fountain does adversity now bring us! How precious to our hearts does sorrow now make the Savior! We were unconscious of our heart's backsliding, had no suspicion of our spiritual declension, and knew not how far away we had strayed from Jesus and the fold until the voice of the rod awoke us from our deep, treacherous slumber, and brought us back. <; Before I was afflicted, I went astray; but now have I kept thy law." Oh, sweet affliction that brings .us in penitence to Christ's feet, that He might, in the condescension of His love, cleanse us afresh! Be much in prayer and confession at the feet of Jesus, and, though you are often foot-sore and soiled in your earthly travel, His love will heal and His blood will cleanse you, and so shall you walk in white with Jesus here until, erelong, He shall say to you— "Come up hither!"

Behold! where in the Friend of man

Appears each grace divine;

The graces all in Jesus met,

With holiest radiance shine.

Lowly in heart to all His friends,

A Friend and Servant found, He wash'd their feet, He wiped their tears,

And heal'd each bleeding wound.

Be Christ our Pattern, and our Guide!

His image may we bear;

Oh, may we tread His sacred steps,

And His bright glories share I

THE DISCIPLE WASHING CHRIST'S FEET;

OR,

THE SERVICE OF LOVE.

"And, behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner, when she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster box of ointment, and stood at His feet behind Him weeping, and began to wash His feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed His feet, and anointed them with the ointment."—Luke 7:37, 38.

We have considered one of the most instructive and impressive acts of our Lord's life— His washing the disciples' feet. Scarcely less so is that one which is now to engage our study, and which we place by its side— 5. 129 E

the disciple washing the Lord's feet. The incident is one of those occurrences which illustrates the reciprocal interest which exists between Christ and His people. On His part, redeeming love and condescending grace; on theirs, the warmest affection and the most unreserved service. We need not speculate upon the identity of the woman who stole into Simon's house to perform this act of love to her Savior. But little is known of her history. The only event recorded of importance to know is, her true conversion to Christ, and this fact will contribute to the praise of Jesus and the glory of God when the annals of the world and the exploits and pomp of the great will be buried in eternal oblivion. How indistinctly do we understand the nature, or estimate the importance of conversion. It is the only event in our history worthy of a thought. It is the one event of our present life, which molds and colors all our endless future. All other events are grand impertinences in comparison of this one. Converted or unconverted! is the grand question. Converted—" life eternal!" Unconverted— "everlasting punishment!" So spake Him who is eternal truth. Let us turn to the woman who washed the Savior's feet. We are not to identify her with Mary, sister of Lazarus, who was of Bethany, nor with Mary Magdalene, who is supposed to have acquired this appellation because she was born in Magdala, an unimportant town of the tribe of Manasseh. But she, doubtless, resided in the city of Nain, and is described as "a woman in the city" where in His walks of usefulness Jesus met her, to whom He preached the gospel of His grace —a gospel of glad tidings for poor, lost sinners—and who by His Spirit He drew to Himself in penitence, faith, and love. And now we are to view her as sitting at His feet, bathing them with her warm tears of affection, and illustrating the sweet service of love.

She is described as a " sinner." Was she a sinner above all that dwelt in the city of Nain 1 Was she by nature viler than us? Nay, in the strong language of Scripture, "All have sinned, and have come short of the glory of God." "There is none righteous, no, not one." We are all included in man's fall from original righteousness; all are conceived in sin and born in iniquity; all are by nature wholly depraved and universally tainted. "The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked." This is the first lesson we learn in grace, the first stage we take in conversion—the lesson of our sinnership. If, my reader, the Lord is for the first time setting you to learn this lesson, if the fact has burst upon your mind as with electric power, startling you from a profound slumber, yea, awakening you from the sleep of death, hail with joy this new-born revelation of yourself to yourself, as the dawn of that day of grace which will assuredly terminate in an eternity of glory. Oh, it is a grand thing to learn spiritually and experimentally that we are sinners! To know it not merely in the judgment, but from the heart. To acknowledge it not only with the lip in the public service of the sanctuary, but to confess it in the private devotion of the closet, with the mouth in the dust, beneath the cross of Immanuel. Be assured of this, as of a most vital truth, that Christ will have no gracious

dealings with you in the way of pardon, but in your capacity as a sinner. "He came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance." "He came to seek and to save that which was lost." "This is a Faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners." "Sinners, of whom," says Paul, "I am chief." The Pharisee despised this poor woman because she was a sinner, but Jesus threw around her the shield of His sin-forgiving love.

But she was more than a sinner—she was a penitent sinner. God had given her a broken heart and a contrite spirit, and this had humbled her at His feet. Has He, my reader, wrought this grace in your soul 1 The world thinks meanly of a man who thinks meanly of himself; but God's estimate of self-abhorrence and man's estimate are essenj tially and widely different. The world passes | him by as a being beneath its notice and j regard, but God says, "To this man will 1 look, even to him who is of a broken and \ humble spirit, and who trembles at my word." Make a personal and serious application

1

of this truth to yourself, my reader. Has your proud spirit been humbled? Has the inmost and hidden fountain of evil been unveiled to your eye? Has Jesus, by His Spirit and truth and ministers, met you pacing along the highway of sin and rebellion, and shown to you the leprosy of sin, as, like a pestilential and fatal plague, it touched and tainted all within? Solemn, momentous questions! But how sweet and blessed is the grace of repentance! To lie in the dust before God is at once the most humiliating and the most exalting condition; it is the bitterest and yet the sweetest experience of the believer's life. There is no sweetness tasted of pardoning grace until this bitter. Like the little book which John received from the angel's hand and ate, which was "to the belly bitter, but in the mouth sweet as honey," so godly grief for sin is at first bitter as gall, but afterwards sweet as honey, in the experience into which it brings the soul of God's forgiving love.

She was also a pardoned, saved sinner. Her sins had been great, but the blood of Jesus had proved greater, and had prevailed to wash them all away. We too much overlook this assured truth—and its oversight is the secret cause of much spiritual despondency—the present salvation of a <;hild of God. Salvation is always referred to in the divine Scriptures of truth in the present tense. "By grace ye are savgd." "Who hath saved us." We shall never be more really saved than we now are if we believe in Jesus. Our salvation is not a past or a future blessing to be enjoyed, but a present one. Our sins are now all pardoned—" Who hath forgiven you all trespasses." Our persons are now fully justified—"Accepted in the Beloved." We are now adopted—" Now are we the sons of God." Oh, let us not sink below the level of this precious and sanctifying truth, but rise to its highest reach and its fullest realization and enjoyment. We lose one of the most powerful incentives to holiness, and with this, one of the sweetest springs of happiness, when we lose sight of our presetit and complete salvation. How should our | songs of praise wake the sweet echoes of every valley, and of every mountain, and of every plain, along which we travel home to God, for this great salvation which God has provided, which Christ has wrought, and which the Holy Spirit has applied, and which faith has freely received and is privileged fully to enjoy. "There is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus." Rest not.until you know that you are saved. It is attainable—others have attained it, and §o may you. The blood sprinkled, the Spirit's seal impressed, peace with God experienced, the Savior's preciousness felt, and holiness breathed after, will leave not the shadow of a doubt upon your mind as to your present and eternal safety. How blessedly will this experience bear you through the trials and sufferings and sorrows of your pilgrimage! It will extract poignancy from grief, will blunt the keen edge of affliction, will sweeten the cross, and fringe with gold and purple hues the dark and gloomy clouds which often drape the path we tread.

And mark the place where this loving disciple stood. It was at the feet of Jesus. "And stood at His feet behind Him." How suggestive is this feature of her history. This is the true place of every believer—the feet of Christ. Everything which attaches to us as believers, and all the dealings of God, point to Christ's feet as our true place. All is designed to bring us there. Nor could we seek a place this shady side of heaven so favored, appropriate, or blessed as this. That we may feel that this is the privilege of all, and that it is accessible to all, let us see what some of the errands are that brings us there.

In the first place, spiritual ignorance brings us to the feet ofJesus. The Lord Jesus is the great Prophet of His Church, her only Divine and authorized Teacher! All God's children are taught of Him, and their great Teacher is Christ the Anointed One. Thus spake the Lord, "It is written in the prophets, And they shall be all taught of God. Every man therefore that hath heard, and hath learned of the Father, cometh unto me." And again, "Neither knoweth any man the Father, save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal him." There is a remarkable ignorance of this truth in the present day. Among the many and marked denials of Christ in high places, the denial of His prophetical office is not the least one. Men are setting themselves up everywhere as God - sent teachers of Divine truth, but who give undeniable evidence that they are butSatan-sent emissaries of human error—and, what is most lamentable and alarming, people love to have it so. But what is our safety? what is our true position? The answer is—humbly sitting at the feet ofJesus. Oh, honored place I Oh favored position of a poor sinner deeply sensible of his spiritual ignorance, and ardently desirous of being taught the truth as it is in Jesus. To this place we must bring all those mysteries of revelation, and apparently inexplicable truths, and discrepant statements, and things hard to be understood, which have perplexed and confounded us. The Bible can only be properly studied in the light of Christ and at the feet of Christ. If we read it merely as a history, or as a poem, or as a system of philosophy, and not as a Revelation of Christ only, we shall fail of compassing the grand end for which the Divine revelation was given. Or, if we sit at the feet of a human Gamaliel, and not at the feet of Jesus only, receiving in humility and faith the gracious words that proceed out of His lips, we shall most assuredly err, not understanding the Scriptures. Let your place of learning, then, my reader, be at the feet of Jesus. Are you perplexed about a doctrine, or an ordinance, or a question of conscience, or a path of duty 1 take your place here, and seek instruction from Him, and in His light you shall see light. Human reason must come there, the pride of intellect must lie there, preconceived opinion must yield there—sitting there as a little child, desiring the sincere milk of the word—as a humble disciple anxious to know the truth that quickens, sanctifies, and saves. Thus surrendering yourself entirely to Divine teaching, Jesus will show you the way of life, will enlighten your mind, resolve your doubts, and unfold to you more clearly the blessed truth that He Himself is "the Truth," whom to know is life eternal! I cannot sufficiently reiterate the averment that the Bible can only be clearly understood as it is studied in the light of the Sun of Righteousness, with one intent and aim only toknowthe Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the Old and the New Testament unitedly testify. Thus the very closing book of the sacred canon, the Revelation of St John—mystical and symbolical as it is— is termed "the Revelation of Jesus Christ"— i. e., not the revelation by Jesus Christ merely, but the revelation concerning Jesus Christ Himself. In other words, it does not mean so much Christ the Revealer, as Christ the Revealed. And so is Christ the revealed Messiah, Savior, Redeemer of the entire Scriptures of truth. Jesus Christ is the same in the "yesterday" of the Old Testament, in the " today " of the New, and in the "forever" of our endless study. "Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, and today, and for ever." "Search the Scriptures," said He to whom gave all the prophets witness, "for they are they which testify of me.'1 At the feet, then, of this Divine, skilful, gentle Teacher, humbly take your place as a sincere learner, as a loving disciple, and in His light you shall see light upon all that is essential you should know as a sinner on your way to the judgment. He will open your understanding as He did that of the disciples of old, that you may understand the Scriptures concerning Himself. Let us imitate Mary of Bethany, "which also sat at Jesus' feet and heard His word."

Affection brings us to the feet of Christ. Love ever delights to be near the object of its preference and regard. In nothing does this sentiment find a truer, or more sacred illustration as in the experience of the believer. Christ is the Object of his supreme affection. He loves Christ more than he loves all other beings, single or combined. "Lovest thou me more than these?" awakes the ready and earnest response from every Christian's heart, "Lord, thou knowest that I love thee." It is his supreme happiness, his heaven on earth, to be close to the Savior who sacrificed His life for him, who called him by His grace, and has told him that where He, the Lord, is, there he the disciple shall be. This sensible realization of the Lord's personal presence constitutes the life and nourishment of dailypersonal religion. There are many religious professors who do not know what the absence of Christ is, because they know nothing experimentally of His presence. We cannot miss a joy we have never felt, nor pine for a blessing we have never possessed. AVe must experimentally and personally know Christ, and love Him, and walk with Him, to be conscious of the cold, dreary blank—a blank no creature-good can fill—which the withdrawment of His sensible presence creates. Oh happy soul, so living in the sunshine of the Divine presence as to be sensible of the slightest cloud that veils it I who, wont to walk side by side and in face-to-face communion with the Lord, are more sensitive to any disturbance of your holy joy than the compass is to the slightest variation of the needle. Behold, then, the true place of love to Christ—His sacredfeet. Prove your love to the Savior, my reader, by being often there. Allow no creature to come between you and Jesus. Let not the world allure you from so dear a Friend. Be loving to His person, loyal to His cause, steadfast in His faith, valiant for His truth, holding fast your Christian profession without wavering. Let sensible nearness to Christ be the life of your religion and the characteristic of your walk. It is the happiest as it is the holiest life on earth. It is one remove only from the life of heaven. There, "in His presence is fullness of joy," and only there. We Tcnow the joy in part now when we feel our Lord \ near to us; but we shall know the "fullness of joy" then when standing in His beatific presence unshared by an object, unshaded by a cloud. Let the cold-hearted' intellectualist call this the religion of sentiment if he may. I desire no other. To walk with God is the loftiest reach of the sanctified intellect, the highest and noblest desire of the human mind. We can only properly employ our thoughts upon God as we move in the orbit of His presence; and no object of contemplation and research, no theme of meditation and discourse, gives such development and expansion to the intellectual powers as the study of God revealed in His Word and manifest in His Son Christ Jesus. "This is life eternal, to know thee the only true God, and fesus Christ whom thou hast sent." How do we best become acquainted with the mental and moral qualities of an individual but by frequent, close, and confiding intercourse? Thus is it that in the Enoch-like walk of the child of God he gets to understand God's

revealed mind and Christ's unveiled heart, and so his soul revolves near to the Divine, Eternal, and blessed Centre.

Not less does the discipline of sorrow bring us to the feet ofJesus. It is sent, indeed, by our blessed Lord for this purpose. Sorrow always brings Christ to our persons, and to our homes; and, when sanctified, brings us to His feet in a closeness of acquaintance and fellowship, perhaps, unknown before. We become better acquainted with Him who Himself was acquainted with grief. Oh how near to Christ, our Friend and Brother, does one trial, a single affliction, a solitary sorrow, bring us. We seem scarcely to have known Him before. The stars we admired, the moon we worshiped of created attraction, have withdrawn their light, and the Sun of Righteousness takes their place, and we fall before Him with a depth of adoration and an intensity of love such as no Persian idolator ever felt in the worship offered to his god. What a volume on the hallowed benefits of affliction might the personal history of each child of God supply! Would not this one stand first and foremost in the 144

catalog—*" I have known more of Christ in this season of suffering, in this hour of sorrow, in the discipline of this one trial, than I ever knew in all my previous experience?" Truly is that sorrow a blessing when we can bless the Refiner for the sorrow, a sorrow that has brought us into the posses

! sion of a blessing like this. Oh, how we shrink from the discipline of trial as though some strange and needless thing happened unto us! How we recoil from this assimilation into which it brings us to Jesus, just as if the disciple must be above his Lord, the servant above his Master, the bride a wife of pleasure while the Bridegroom was a man of grief. O no! we wish it not. We would be like our Lord, and in nothing is the resemblance more complete than in the sacred sorrow which often drapes the spirit and crushes the heart. It is thus we "have fellowship with Him in His sufferings," and are made "partakers of the afflictions of Christ" drinking of the cup He drank, baptized with the baptism with which He was baptized, and treading the path He trod. And all

! this we come into the experience of when sorrow brings us to His feet. This, perhaps, in a measure, is a new place in our Christian experience. We have known something of the head of Christ, for we have felt the power of His truth; we have known something of the heart of Christ, for we have tasted the sweetness of His love; but little have we known of the blessing of lying down at the feet of Christ, chastened and humbled, emptied and weaned, willing that He shall be now, and in all future time, our all in all. For this the discipline has been sent. Your heart, perchance, has wandered far away from the Lord; your walk with Him has been distant, your intercourse shy. Your mind has grown worldly, and your heart idolatrous; your confidence has become timid, and your love has chilled. The Lord, whose eye has not for a moment lost sight of you, has seen it all, and, loving you, in love has sent the chastening that has brought you back to Himself, and once more you find your heaven at His feet. And then you sing—

"Trials make the promise sweet;

Trials give new life to prayer;

Trials bring- me to His feet,

Lay me low, and keep me there."

Thither, tried and sorrowful believer, bring your grief. Those feet once pierced for you will now hide and soothe you within their very wounds, those wounds at once your healing and your shelter. It is a holy and costly sorrow that brings us closer to Christ. We never learn so much what He is as then. And when we arrive in heaven and fall down before His throne, how fully shall we realize the sentiment of the Christian poet—

"Bless'd, there, with a weight of glory,

Still the path I '11 ne'er forget,

But, exulting, cry, It led me

To my blessed Savior's seat.

Sweet affliction,

Which has brought to Jesus feet!"

Once more. The feet of Christ is the only place of real safety. There is much in the history of each saint of God to jeopardize his well-being. David was a giant in grace— compared with whom the tallest of us are but dwarfs—and yet listen to his petition, "Hold Thou me up and I shall be safe" Paul was a veteran in the holy war—compared with whom the most valiant of us are but raw recruits—yet listen to his exhortation, "Let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall." Ecclesiastical pinnacles are dizzy and dangerous places for a man of God. Have we ever met with one advanced to distinguished preferment who has not had need to seek a double portion of God's Spirit to rest upon him 1 I received this holy acknowledgment once from the lips of a prelate whom in earlier years I had known and labored with as the humble pastor of a village parish, but who since then had been advanced to one of the most important sees in the English Church; and God, I believe, gave him the request that he asked. The divine discipline, moreover, through which he subsequently passed, out of which fiery tribulation Christ took him to glory, brought him yet closer to the Master's feet, from whence Jesus raised him to that bright world of bliss "where the wicked cease from troubling and where the weary are at rest!' Here, then, is our true place of safety, wandering from which we are as "a bird that wandereth from her nest." Peter had not

denied his Lord but for this. Following his Master afar off, the enemy found room to come between him and Jesus; and thus, effecting a momentary separation of the disciple from the Lord, accomplished his downfall. Here, then, is our safety. "He that is down need fear no fall." He that lies "low in a low place" is safe. Here at the feet of Jesus the world is renounced, self is loathed, sin is forsaken. Satan flies, and God draws near, and we sit and bask in the sunbeams of His smiles. Oh that wherever we are, and with whatever we possess, to the place where this loving woman sat may we repair. Have you talents 1—bring them here. Have you honors?—renounce them here. Have you wealth 1—deposit it here. Are you useful 1—lay it at the feet of Jesus. Accumulate, cluster, and concentrate all you are and all you have around those feet that trod for you Gethsemane's garden, and were nailed for you to Calvary's cross, that in all things He may have the pre-eminence.

We now reach an interesting and instructive part of this narrative—the disciple washing Christ's feet: "And washed His feet with tears, and wiped them with the hair of her head." Those tears!—who can analyze them 1, Where shall we find pearls so priceless, or stones so precious and of fairer colors? Away with the notion that true religion is the foe of sensibility, that the gospel of Christ is the patron of stoicism. The religion of Christ is the only religion that unseals the fount of feeling, while it chastens and sanctifies the tears it bids us shed. The Divine Author of that religion Wept. What need we more 1 Let us turn, then, to the weeping disciple.

She washed Christ's feet with the tears of penitence. There are no tears in Christ's view more costly or precious than these. This woman was poor in spirit, humble and contrite, and as she stood behind her sin-forgiving Savior, her tears of godly sorrow for sin rained fast upon his feet. Have you, my reader, wept for sin J Does the recollection of past transgression make you sorry? Does the memory of the sins of your youth, the transgressions of riper years, the sinful infirmities of old age, humble you in the dust? Holier and more precious tears were never shed than those wept for having sinned against God at Christ's feet. "And Peter went out and wept bitterly." "The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit: a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise." Good words these for penitent souls I

She washed Christ's feet with the tears 0/ faith. Is faith, then, you ask, an emotional J grace 1 Most surely so. "With the Heart man believeth unto righteousness." And again it is written, "They shall look upon me whom they have pierced, and shall mourn." It is faith that looks to a crucified Savior, and the sight of the eye mclteth the heart, and the believing penitent weeps. A humble penitent, this woman was a true be| liever. These are twin graces in the expej rience of the saints. Repentance towards | God and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ constitute the two cardinal principles of experimental religion. Dost thou believe in the Lord Jesus, my reader? The Bible does not ask if you work, or if you strive, or if you pray; its great inquiry is, "Dost thou believe i" "To him that believeth is the reward I not reckoned of works but of grace." Do

1

you believe in Jesus 1 Has your faith received Him? Are you willing to be nothing? to "cast your deadly doings down, yea, down at Jesus' feet," accepting Him as "made of God unto you wisdom, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption?" Come and wash the Savior's feet with the tears that flow from a believing sight of Him whom you have pierced. Faith in Jesus will be as the rod of Moses smiting the rock and causing the waters to flow.

She washed Christ's feet, too, with the tears of grateful love. Jesus had pardoned all her sins, had absolved her from their guilt, and had released her from their power. How natural was the feeling of gratitude, how appropriate this service of love! The most evangelical and genuine contrition for sin flows from a sense of its forgiveness. Nothing breaks the heart so thoroughly as the experience of God's pardoning love, love flowing from a sight of the cross. Sinai terrifies, but Calvary subdues. The law petrifies, but the gospel melts; terrors repel, but love wins.

"Law and judgment do but harden,

All the time they work alone,

But a sense of blood-bought pardon

Soon dissolves the heart of stone."

Let your love be a weeping love, then it will be a practical love, bathing the feet of Him who virtually bathes yours in the condescending acts of His grace, by which He is among us still as Him that serveth.

In lending ourselves to acts of Christian kindness, beneficence, and sympathy, we are still washing the feet of Jesus in the lowly service of love offered in His name to His saints. This fact is much overlooked— Christ as represented by, and as recognized in, His people. We but little reflect that when in any way we wound, or neglect, or despise a true disciple of Christ, we turn our back upon Christ Himself—such is the oneness, the essential, undeniable oneness of the Lord Jesus with His people. Oh how sweet it will be to hear Him say, when He comes in His glory to receive to Himself and to present to His Father His elect Church, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me" Then will the cup of cold water given —the soothing administered at the sick-bed, the visit to the house of mourning—be acknowledged and rewarded before an assembled world 1

Then followed her holy caress and the sacred anointing. "And kissed his feet, and anointed them with-ointment." This mode of courtesy, prevalent among the Jews, and also among the Greeks and Romans, received a peculiar and impressive significance in this instance. The kiss was her confession of Christ, the seal of her love to His person, the expression of her gratitude for His great and distinguishing grace towards her. The Church of old aspired to kiss the lips of Christ—" let Him kiss me with the kisses of His mouth"—but this disciple was content to kiss His feet. It is our happiness to know that the Lord will accept the lowliest service and the feeblest expression of faith in, and love to, Him. "If I may but touch the border of His garment," is the highest ambition of humble faith; if I may but kiss His feet, is the ardent desire of lowly love. Judas soiled the face of Jesus with the kiss of perfidious treachery —this humble disciple anointed His feet with

the sacred kiss of admiring and grateful love. Whose place would we prefer? Lord, let me kiss Thy feet, worship at Thy feet, keep close to Thy feet, until, springing from Thy footstool on earth, I find myself adoring, praising, loving Thee at Thy feet in glory.

"That blessed interview, how sweet!

To fall transported at His feet,

Raised in His arms to view His face,

Through the full beamings of His grace.

"Yet, with this prospect full in sight,

I '11 wait Thy signal for my flight,

For, while thy service I pursue,

I find my heaven begun below."

This narrative impressively illustrates the true service of love. Never did purer love offer a more grateful service to the Savior than that which this sin-pardoned disciple presented. We behold the model of what Jesus desires and expects at our hands. We are Christ's servants if we are Christ's disciples—"for we serve the Lord Christ" Our consecration to the service of Jesus is an evidence of our true love to Him. Love is not an inactive, selfish, indolent grace. "Faith," which is the root of every other grace, " works by love." What will not mere creature-love do and suffer for the object of its regard! See its power in a mother's heart, bending night after night in sleepless watching over her sick and suffering babe! See its power in a father's heart nerving him for toil, and constraining him to plow stormy seas, imperiling life in distant and unhealthy climes, for love of that home-circle around which his untravelled heart still clings. But infinitely more potent, as divinely more precious, is the love which constrains the disciple of Jesus to consecrate his service to the Lord. Our Christian profession involves a service, as our Christianity imposes a cross. An inactive, indolent disciple of Christ is a contradiction of terms. The moment we become the Lord's, we submit our necks to a yoke, and our backs to a burden, and love makes the one to be easy and the other to be light. Christ's service has many fields and various departments—all may find employment here. There is a sphere for every servant, work for every laborer, employment for every gift. "Son, go work today in my vineyard," is Christ's command to every believer, even to him of but one talent only. There is a field for the evangelist, a sphere for the teacher, scope for the visitor, work for male and female. Oh, how much is to be done for this fallen, sinful world, speeding to the judgment! What countless, goodly pearls are to be found! what hidden sheep are to be sought! what wandering children are to be brought home of the innumerable seed given of the Father to the Son, for whom He travailed in the sorrow of Gethsemane, the ingathering of whom He shall yet behold with infinite satisfaction, delight, and glory! To aid Him in this work of recovery, He asks our consecrated service, He bids us come to the help of the Lord, to the help of the Lord against the mighty. And shall we, wearing the badge of the Christian disciple, renounce the livery of the Christian servant? Redeeming love, forbid it! We are the Lord's. Henceforth we bind ourselves to acknowledge no Master but Him, to wear no yoke, and to engage in no service but His. Oh impressive thought— "Whose I am, and whom I serve!" Up, then, my Christian reader, to the service of your Lord and Master. Awake thou that sleepest! Rouse you from selfishness and indolence, and disinter your buried talent. Go to the cross, where, in tears and blood, in suffering and death, your hell was extinguished and your heaven won, and before that cross blush that you should for one moment have hesitated to yield your ransomed powers, gifts, time, and possessions entirely, freely, and supremely to the Savior. From this solemn hour let love constrain you to a simple, self-denying, unfaltering devotion to Him who sacrificed His life for you, and who, at His second coming in glory and majesty, will make you sit down at the marriage banquet, and serve you. "Where 1 am, there shall also my servant be." Weary, suffering, persecuted servant of Christ, take heart, for the Master is coming, and rich will be your reward. Bind to your heart His yoke more firmly, His burden more closely, His cross more fondly, for a glittering crown, and a snow-white robe, and a waving palm, and a golden harp await you in glory. Living or dying, be your place and posture that of the loving disciple we have been considering—the feet of Jesus. There you are happy and safe; there you will derive strength for duty, and grace for trial; and whatever clouds may shade other spots in life, this will be bathed in undimmed and eternal sunshine.

"Sitting at the feet of Jesus,"

Oh, what words I hear Him say;

Happy place! so near, so precious,

May it find me there each day.

"Sitting at the feet of Jesus,"

I would look upon the past;

For His love has been so gracious,

It has won my heart at last.

"Sitting at the feet of Jesus,"

I would seek to be much blessed;

There I lay my sins and sorrows,

And, when weary, find sweet rest.

"Sitting at the feet of Jesus,"

I would wait my way to see;

Leaning, trusting, and confiding,

Since He orders all for me.

"Sitting at the feet of Jesus,"

Holy happiness I find;

In the secret of His presence,

He reveals to me His mind.

"Sitting at the feet of Jesus,"

There I love to weep and pray;

While I from His fullness gather

Grace and comfort every day.

"Sitting at the feet of Jesus,"

I would choose that better part;

Flee from earthly cares and pleasures,

While I tell Him all my heart.

"Sitting at the feet of Jesus,"

I there learn His will divine;

See His smile, and catch His sweetness,

As He whispers, " Thou art mine."

"Sitting at the feet of Jesus,"

I would pray to be kept there;

Clothed and hidden, wash'd, forgiven,

I may lay aside all fear.

Bless me, O my Savior, bless me,

As I sit low at Thy feet;

Oh! lock down in love upon me,

Let me see Thy face so sweet.

Give me, Lord, the mind of Jesus,

Make me holy as He is;

May I prove I've been with Jesus,'

Who is all my Righteousness.

E. F. De M. PATIENCE IN SUFFERING;

OR,

"HE WAS LED AS A LAMB TO THE SLAUGHTER."

"Patient in tribulation."—Romans 12:12.

Doubtless, the preceding chapter, illustrating the "service of love," has found its way into many a sick and lone chamber. And as the suffering patient languidly turned over its leaves, the sad thought doubtless has risen in the mind—" The service of love! alas! I am but a dry tree, a useless cumberer of the ground, exiled from the world, hidden from the Church, and, lying upon this couch of i weakness, an anxiety and care to many, a helper and succourer to none! How can 6. 161 F

/offer to Jesus the service of love?" Suppress that desponding thought, hush that self-reflection, suffering child of God. Dost thou forget that there is a passive service of love, equally as an active service of love, for Christ? That, there are graces of the Spirit which only find their true development and culture in the very school of God in which He has now placed thee? And that, in that darkened room, and upon that suffering couch, and from that lonely exile, you may render to God a service of love, and yield to Him a sacrifice of praise not less precious, acceptable, .and glorifying than that of the most active servant in the vineyard, or the most valiant soldier of Christ upon the battle-field. To endeavor to allay this mental depression, and to remove this unjust and painful selfreflection, the subject of these pages invites your devout attention — the Patience of Suffering. "He was led as a Lamb to the slaughter."

There is probably no grace of the Spirit in the believer more underrated or overlooked than that of patience. And yet there is not one which presents a stronger evidence or a more lovely illustration of the Christian character than it. Like some of those flowers God has penciled with beauty and perfumed with sweetness, which unfold their tints and breathe their fragrance vailed from human eye, this lovely and lowly grace of patience is almost entirely lost sight of by those who are borne onward upon the sweeping tide of this ever-heaving, active age of the Christian Church. And just as those flowers are only to be found in turning aside from the beaten path and the excited multitudes who throng it, into some quiet, shaded nook, so those patient sufferers of Christ's Church—those precious plants of His garden, so dear to His heart and so beauteous in His eye—are only to be met in scenes of suffering and sorrow, sequestered and shaded from all but God. Thus, in this age of Christian service, of rapid thought and of earnest action,- there is danger of overlooking the hidden flowers of Christ's garden; in other words, of forgetting that there are passive as well as active graces of the Christian character which are as much the fruit of the Spirit, and requiring equally as skilful and diligent culture, and are as pleasant and glorifying to God, as an apostle's zeal or a martyr's heroism.

Let us, then, turn our attention to this hidden grace of the Spirit in the believer—, the grace of patience in the season of suffering. "Patient in tribulation."

And what, in the first place, is the school in which the holy lesson of patience is learned, the sphere in which this precious grace of the Spirit is developed and exercised'! It is God's school and sphere of suffering. The very existence of patience, or, in other words, a meek and quiet endurance of God's will, implies the existence of suffering and trial. The passive graces of the Christian character have a sphere of development peculiarly their own. .Like the stars of heaven, they only shine forth when night robes the world in darkness. We know but little of the character of others, still less of our own, until adversity draws it forth. It is thus with the Christian. It is seen but in profile by others, still more partially by himself, until brought under the discipline of trial. Adversity gives symmetry and completeness to Christian character. A Christian man who is a stranger to affliction, a "vessel of mercy," who, though penciled with the renewed image of God, has not yet passed through the fiery furnace which gives vividness and fixedness to the likeness—a child of God who, though a son, has yet to receive this unerring seal of his sonship, the chastening of a loving Father — must have much to pass through ere his Christianity receives its full and most beauteous development. And when we ponder these wondrous words respecting our Lord —, "Though He were a Son, yet learned He obedience by the things which He suffered" "He was led as a Lamb to the slaughter," can it be to us a matter of surprise, or even of regret, that, claiming a relationship to Him, as our Elder Brother, we, like Him, should be "made perfect through suffering?" If He, our Brother, partook of our nature, and thus proved He was not ashamed to call us brethren, shall it be considered by us a strange and humiliating thing if we should be called to partake of His afflictions, to bear His cross, and thus have fellowship with His sufferings?

Such, then, is God's school—the school of all whom He is training for heaven. There are various classes or departments in this school of suffering, just as there are varied lessons that we learn, and different degrees of grace to which we attain. All do not suffer, all are not chastened, all are not afflicted, alike. There is a secret in every cross we carry, a loneliness in every path we tread. The believer is of all beings the most inexplicable. A mystery to others, he is a greater mystery to himself. "I am," says David, "a wonder unto many," but a far greater wonder must he have appeared in his own eyes. Perhaps, in nothing does this deep, impenetrable veiling more signally appear than in the discipline through which the Lord leads us. Why we should suffer— why the suffering should come from such a quarter—or why it should assume such a form—be so dark, intense, and painful—,! is a profound in God's dealings which we cannot fathom. But, beloved, we shall never fully .unravel this mystery of suffering until we arrive at that world where all the con. cealments of the present will be unveiled, where the mystery of suffering will then be found to have been but the mystery of love— love lovingly disguised—and when we shall know even as also we are known. It is this view of the concealment of suffering which invests it with a character so solemn and sacred. Nothing requires to be touched with a hand more gentle, nothing more delicately and partially unveiled, than sorrow. It would seem as if God alone had a right to do with grief, to enter within that most sacred of all human sanctuaries, the sanctuary of a heart which affliction has smitten, whose arteries are bleeding, whose fibers are quivering, whose tenderest sensibilities are crushed beneath a calamity God only can meet, a sorrow He only knows, as He only can comfort.

But what are some of those forms of suffering in each of which we learn the lesson and exhibit the grace of a loving, patient, acquiescence in the will of God? in other words, in which we illustrate, not the service, but the patient waiting of love. "Patient in tribulation"

We reach many a home, and touch many a heart, when we place in the foreground of our sad picture the suffering of bodily ailment. The world is a vast hospital. It is a lazarhouse of disease. Sickness is a result of the Fall, a direct result and fruit of sin. This form of parental discipline embraces a large portion of the suffering Church of God, perhaps, the largest. Enter what abode we may—the palace or the cottage, the palatial mansion of the rich, or the lowly cot of the poor—each has its bed of sickness, its couch of suffering, or its chamber of death. This, beloved, may be your school of discipline—the sphere in which you are called of God to exercise not the active service, but the passive waiting, of love. You were, perhaps, once an entire stranger to disease, and you could scarcely imagine that a form so stately could bow, and a constitution so robust could yield, and a bloom so brilliant could fade at the touch of sickness. But it has come! The vigor, the elasticity, the flush of health are gone, and you lie prostrate upon that couch of suffering and weakness, the shadow, the wreck of your former self. And now, what gloomy thoughts and painful self-reflections crowd upon your mind! You take up the stirring narrative that lies upon your pillow of arduous, brilliant, successful service for Christ and His truth wrought by others, and contrasting it with your own helpless inactivity and apparent uselessness, you areready to write hard and bitterthings against yourself, if not even tempted to cherish hard and murmuring thoughts against your God. But be still, my brother, my sister! Yours is a high school, a noble realm, an honored sphere of love—love to God flowing forth and ascending to Him in a patient, cheerful, uncomplaining endurance of His will. What a witness for Christ and a teacher of men art thou on that bed of paralyzed helplessness, that couch of unmitigated pain, that room of restless, ceaseless suffering! Superficial thinkers may imagine, and your own morbid feelings may suggest to your desponding mind the thought, that, because a child of God is confined to his room, or, in ordinary language, is laid aside, that therefore he has no duties to perform, no service to engage in, no testimony to bear for Christ. A great misconception is this, a lamentable error— the result, in most cases, of the gloomy, distortihg effect of disease acting upon the mental and spiritual of our nature. The sick-room, the suffering-bed, has its peculiar and appropriate duties. Sermons are preached, truths are illustrated, lessons are taught there, heard from no pulpit and in no sanctuary in the land. To say nothing of the moral discipline to himself, of which sickness is instrumental — exercising and maturing the various graces of the Christian —what a testimony is borne from a sickbed to the sustaining power of Divine grace, to the preciousness of the Divine promises, to the love of God, and to the faithfulness, tenderness, and sympathy of the Savior! And, as we stand beside that sufferer, and silently gaze upon that beautiful quietness of godly submission, see the battle that is there waging between doubt and faith, despondency and hope, weakness and strength, fear and heroism, patience and irritability, and mark how the Christian shines, and how Christianity triumphs, surely there is a testimony borne in that sick, lone, quiet chamber to the Divine nature, the sustaining, soothing, death-conquering religion of Christ found in no battle-field of the Christian strife, though strewn with the spoils and resounding with the shout of victory. Oh yes, thou sick and suffering child of God, God has still lessons for thee to learn, a Work for thee to do, and prizes for thee to win! The lamp of life may burn long and sickly, but its dim and flickering flame may give light to some dark, bewildered soul feeling its way to Jesus; it may guide some wandering footstep back to God, may nerve some wavering faith, dispel some gloomy fear, and plant a gem in the Savior's diadem that shall sparkle in the sunlight of glory for ever. Be patient, then, beloved, in this tribulation, for God is dealing well with thee, thou sick and suffering one, and thine is the patience of love.

Adversity presents another illustration of the passive grace of patience. Life has its moral seasons as nature its physical. It is not always spring or summer with us—oftener it is winter. The cold, withering storms of adversity sweep over us, and we are ready to take up the language of the weeping prophet, and exclaim, "/ am the man that hath seen affliction by the rod of His wrath. \ He hath led me and brought me into darkness, but not into light. Surely against me is He turned; He turneth His hand against me all the day." Thus, perhaps, God is dealing with you, my reader. Affliction has arrested you. You have met with a sad reverse. Your commercial affairs are embarrassed, your extensive investments are imperiled, your hard earnings are swallowed up, and your entire social position is changed. And now let patience have its perfect work, lacking nothing. All is not gone! The fruit may be blighted, the foliage may be scattered, the boughs may be broken, but the trunk and the root of the tree yet remain of spiritual life, of faith in God, of love to Christ, of integrity and uprightness, which no vicissitude of fortune can impair, no unruly blast of adversity destroy. All is not gone! God is still your Father, Christ is still your Friend, hope is still your anchor, and heaven still your home. Let the quiet spirit exclaim, "Thy will, my God, be done!" Thus "in your patience shall you possess your soul." From the whirl, excitement, and snares of busy, active life, God is leading you into the quiet, reflective repose of comparative exile. He has purposes of wisdom and thoughts of love by this timely arrest. He has wisely, righteously interposed a check to a course, a curb to a spirit, that may have imperceptibly beguiled you on to an unseen and fearful precipice. Stand still and see His salvation; and learn from this holy lesson of your Christian life, that the patience of love, exhibited in your unswerving acquiescence, in your deadness to the world, and the closer drawing of your mind to divine things and eternal realities, may result in a richer blessing to yourself, and of greater glory to God, than the most successful enterprise in which your worldly interests were ever embarked. Hallowed discipline that yields such fruit, though it tear up and destroy, root and branch, every worldly gourd beneath whose grateful shade you sat.

Not less beneath the correcting hand of God is this heaven-wrought grace of patient acquiescence beautifully exhibited. He greatly errs who interprets the Divine chastening as a mark and token of judicial displeasure. He has read that magnificent chapter, the twelfth of the Epistle to the Hebrews, but superficially who so construes its remarkable and consolatory teaching. Thus we read— "Whom the Lord Loveth He Chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom He receiveth. If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons: for what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not?" I pause not, beloved reader, to inquire the cause of the Lord's present correction. It is a secret between Him and you, with which it behoveth not a stranger to meddle. The Lord has made known His secret to you—for "His secret is with the righteous "—and you have committed yours to Him; and well will He keep it, for you have confided it to a loving and Faithful heart. All that we know is, that you are now the subject of His loving, wise, and holy discipline, and that as such we are desirous to aid you in the culture of that most attractive grace of the chastened child, which, while it will bring sweet repose to your own spirit, will result in a rich tribute of glory to Him, "even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is of great price." Take God's servant David, as utter

ing the true language of a corrected yet patient and submissive child. He had been guilty of complicated crimes, and the heavy correction of a righteous Father was upon him. But mark his humble demeanor beneath the chastening rod—"And the king said to Zadok, Carry back the ark of God into the city. If I shall find favor in the eyes of the Lord, He will bring me again, and show me both it and His habitation. But if He thus say, I have no delight in thee, behold here am I, let Him do to me as seemeth good unto Him." What remarkable language is this! How does this beauteous gem of patience in tribulation shine in this dark night of sorrow! Calm be your carriage, beloved, under the chastening hand of God. "Wherefore doth a living man complain, a man for the punishment of his sin i" Hushed be every murmur, quiet every rebellious feeling. Be patient, silent, even cheerfully acquiescent, behaving and quieting yourself even as a child that is weaned of its mother. Oh, sweet correction that embitters sin, endears the Savior, unseals a new spring of love in my Father's heart, and gives me to see that infinite wisdom, rectitude, and goodness maintain His throne and guard all my interests!

Patience in bearing the cross of Jesus is one of the fairest flowers blooming beneath its life-giving shadow. We have all, as Christ's followers, a common cross to bear after Jesus, and each bearer has a cross peculiar to himself. For the most part it is hidden. We but imperfectly know ourselves, and others, especially those who are the most eager to vault into the judgment-seat, know us still less. How little do men know the concealed cross that daily chafes and crushes us! In our home circle, in our avocations

| in life, in our Church-relation, in our social position, the spirit droops and faints beneath the pressure of a trial which we can lay upon no heart but Christ's. Still heavier and more chafing, perhaps, the cross of our own irascible temper, murmuring, and fretfulness, our constitutional tendency to look always at the somber shadings of the picture, the

I dark hues of the cloud spreading above us— to interpret as combining and working against us the varied providences of our God. Oh, what a heavy and sore cross lies deeply veiled in the heart of many a child of God! But what, beloved, is the most sure remedy 1 what the emolient which softens, soothes, and heals 1 It is the patience of love. To be ready to carry the heavy yet sacred wood for Jesus, willing to bear reproach and contumely for His truth, willing to take the low place in His kingdom, to be set lightly by and considered as secondary, perchance to be laid entirely aside from His service altogether, oh, here is the patience and faith of the true saint and disciple of Christ, and rich the glory it brings to His great name!

But, probably, there is not a more impressive illustration of this elevating grace of Christian patience in the endurance of suffering than is supplied by a season of bereaved sorrow. "There is no sorrow," we are tempted in its first bitterness to exclaim, "like this." At least at the moment we feel that it is the greatest. When God takes from us affluence, we feel that by honest and persevering industry we may possibly regain it. When He deprives us of health, we hope that skill and science may restore it. Or, if the venomed tongue of slander has sought to poison and taint our reputation, we are conscious that time and holy living will confound our foe and bring forth our innocence as the noon-day sun. But when God enters our domestic garden to gather His lilies, breaks this strong stem, plucks that beauteous flower, fells this stately cedar or that strong oak; or, to speak without a figure, when He justly takes the loved one that was but His, yet condescendingly asks it as if it were all our own—transferring to Himself the being we had felt was more than half ourselves, whose love seemed essential to our very existence, and if then we bow meekly the head and exclaim, "1 was dumb, I opened not my mouth, because thou didst it," oh this, this is indeed patience in suffering, the luster of which adds a new beam to the splendor of Christ's grace! The mute Christian in bereavement presents one of the finest specimens of the power of real religion recorded in its history. God said to the prophet Ezekiel, "Sen oj man, behold I take away from thee the desire of thine eyes with a stroke: yet neither shall thou mourn nor weep, neither shall thy tears run down. Forbear to cry (i. e., be silent,) because I have set thee for a sign to the house of Israel!' What stupendous grace is this which can raise a man above himself and above the sorest affliction of his life, sealing his lips in silence, or, if permitted to speak, extracting the utterances of the most filial, uncomplaining submission to God's will. "// is the Lord; let Him do what seemeih to Him good." Be patient, then, beloved, under this sore bereavement. "Himself hath done it" who loves you as He loves Himself. "Am I not better to thee than ten husbands, or wife, or child, or friend 1 Have I divorced thee from myself? have I cast thee off? have I taken thine all? Am I not still thine, all thine, for ever thine?" "Yes," faith responds, "Thou, Lord, art mine, and through blinding tears I can now see how much better, far better, that the earthly treasure of myheartshould be removed thus to prepare a wider, holier temple for Thyself. "Of Thine own have I given thee." Let "patience" then, beloved, in this season of crushing grief, "have her perfect work"— i.e., give to it full play and development. Let it not be hindered, suppressed, or paralyzed by fretfulness, murmuring, or rebellion. "That ye may be perfect and etitire, wanting nothing"—i.e., that there may be nothing lacking essential to the symmetry of your Christian character; that it may be, as the original expresses it, whole in every part, nothing wanting. What apparently beautiful and perfect Christian characters we sometimes meet in the bright sunshine of prosperity; but when affliction comes, the elements and principles of their piety are not fully carried out, and the incompleteness of their Christianity becomes strikinglyand painfully evident. There is opposition to God's will, a questioning of the wisdom and love of His procedure, a restiveness and restlessness which at once show that Christian patience, in other words, meek, silent submission to God, has not had her perfect work. This thought suggests the closing observations of the present chapter—What are we to understand more fully by patience in suffering i

It is decidedly a Christian grace, wrought in our hearts by the Holy Spirit. We must distinguish it from natural apathy and indifference. Apathy implies a want of sensibility; but Christian patience, in the midst of the deepest feeling, enables the sufferer to bear the weight of his affliction without a single murmur. It is often found in alliance with the acutest sensibility; yea, it is from the depth of the deepest feeling that the truest patience often springs up the purest and most sparkling. There may exist in the unregenerate a self-control, under circumstances of the greatest provocation, strongly resembling the patience of the believer, which we must be careful not to identify with the Christian grace. An incident in the life of Sir Walter Raleigh will illustrate this idea. On one occasion, when insulted by a young officer at court, he placed his hand upon his sword, and calmly said, "Young man, could I wipe your blood from my sword as easily as I can your spittle from my face, I would pierce you to the heart." This, after all, was but a striking instance of natural self-command. But listen to the language and behold the patience of a greater man and of a more wounded sensibility than his. God had swept from Job all his wealth, had bereaved him of all his children, and had afflicted his body with a loathsome disease; the affection of his wife was alienated, and his "inward friends abhorred him, and those whom he loved were turned against him;" and the agony of his soul found vent in these exquisitely touching words, "Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O ye my friends; for the hand of God hath touched me" But how did he demean himself before God J Did he fly in His face, dispute His right, impeach His goodness 1 Listen to his words—" The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away, blessed be the name of the Lord'' Sublime repose! magnificent faith! God-glorifying patience! "Ye have heard of the patience of Job." Study it, pray over it, transcribe it, until it becomes, as it were, a part of your own moral being, thou tried believer, thou chastened saint of God. Was, then, this grace of patience in suffering peculiar to the patriarch 1 Nay, beloved, the feeblest saint who kisses God's rod, who falls in the dust beneath its stroke, as the wheat beneath the flail falls down at the feet of the thresher, and who lies there chastened, yet subdued, sorrowful, yet silent, afflicted, yet submissive, possesses like precious faith with Job, and presents a spectacle of moral sublimity scarcely less magnificent and instructive than his. Can you bless God for all His dealings with you? Can you honestly bless Him for sickness—bless Him for bereavement—bless Him for poverty—bless Him for the spring He has dried, for the sun He has shaded, for the cloud-veil He has drawn over life's sweet landscape? Then you are enrolled among God's nobility; your "witness is in heaven, and your record is on high," and Jehovah looks down upon you with ineffable delight. Oh, what moral grandeur invests this patient and unreserved surrender of your being, your way, your entire history to God! How must angelic students study this spectacle of grace! How must it deepen the joy of glorified spirits! * How must heaven grow brighter and its music

* Is it speculative to suppose that the glorified saints are in some degree cognisant of what is transpiring in the Church below, through intelligence conveyed to them by the "ministering spirits sent forth to minister to them who shall be heirs of salvation? '■ If there is no positive Scripture to sustain, there seem? no just reasoning to negative, the idea.

sweeter by this and every other conquest of Divine grace, power, and love in the saints on earth, redeemed by the precious blood of the Lamb! Be this simple and entire surrender, my reader, yours. Suffering child of God, "ye have need of patience," and Christ can give, and His grace can sustain it, and its exercise shall be an unceasing source of praise to our great Jehovah's name. If this be so, your willing heart responds, "Then, Lord, not my way, nor will, nor pleasure, but Thine, and Thine alone."

Again, the Christian grace of patience is to be carefully distinguished from the sullen, stoical indifference of the man who recognizes not God in his affliction. The essential difference of the two characters is this:—the unregenerate man looks upon his affliction as coming forth from the dust; while the Christian man traces it to God, accepting it as a Heaven-born, God-sent dispensation. The one is sullen and morose because he regards his reverse as the result of a misjudged step, or of cruel fate; the other is joyous and praiseful because he sees the hand of a loving Father in the discipline. Hence the language of the apostle—" My brethren, count it all Joy when ye fall into divers temptations" (or trials,) "knowing that the trying of your faith worketh Patience." The same apostle, referring to himself, says, "/ am exceedingly Joyful in all our tribulation." And again, writing to the Colossian saints, he speaks of their being "strengthened to long-suffering with joyfulness. Thus cheerfulness is an essential element of true Christian patience, as distinct from the petulant and gloomy spirit of the unregenerate mind, which is not resigned to God's will, because it rejoices not in His sovereignty, but reluctantly and churlishly submits to His government, because it is too impotent to resist His power. Oh, what a high attainment in our spiritual education for heaven is patience in tribulation!

But turn we to that signal and illustrious instance of patience in suffering presented < by our adorable Lord Jesus. As there never was suffering like unto His, nowhere shall we find such a perfect exhibition of Lamblike, uncomplaining endurance. His infinite intelligence, His perfect sinlessness, and exquisite human sensibility, rendered Him all the more acutely alive to the extreme baptism of suffering through which He passed. Suffering to Christ was a school. "Though He were a Son, yet learned He obedience by the things which He suffered." He learned, as I suppose the mind of the Spirit in the apostle to be, experimentally. Until our Lord came under the obligation of the law, and took upon Him sin, the path of obedience and suffering must necessarily have been to Him an untrodden path. It was necessary, therefore, that He should be an experimental Savior. "He learned obedience" —He learned experimentally the nature of obedience, as also the difficulty and the blessings of obedience. He learned, too, the nature and the bitterness of suffering "by the things which He suffered." He derived not His knowledge of obedience and suffering from His own intuitive consciousness, neither did He receive it through the predictions and writings of the prophets. He would accept nothing that was merely notional or theoretical. He would know it all, understand it all, and pass through it all by a personal experience of what it was. Thus our Lord Jesus becomes our perfect Pattern in this one particular of His life—His patient endurance of suffering. "He opened not His month " to murmur or complain. He repined not, fretted not, rebelled not; but when reviled of man He reviled not again, and when afflicted of God He bowed His head and exclaimed, " Thy will, not mine, be done." Suffering believer, come and learn how to suffer from your suffering Savior. Admire His patience in suffering; nor stop at admiration, but imitate it, transcribe it, and make it your own, for "He hath left us an example that we should 'follow His steps.'"

"Perfect through suffering; may it be,

Savior, made perfect thus for me!

I love to kiss the rod

That brings me nearer to my God.

"Perfect through suffering; be Thy cross

The crucible to purge my dross!

Welcome for that its pangs, its scorns,

Its scourge, its nails, its crown of thorns.

« perfect through suffering; heap the fire,

And pile the sacrificial pyre;

But spare each loved and loving one,

And let me feed the flames alone.

"Perfect through suffering; urge the blast,

More free, more full, more fierce, more fast;

It reeks not where the dust be trod,

So the flame waft my soul to God." *

These pages are necessarily limited to a consideration of patience in suffering; yet would I not overlook a class, a large class, who, in all probability, will scan them, who, like the paralytic at the pool of Bethesda, have been long and patiently waiting the moving of the healing waters. But why this waiting] Unlike that mystic fount, the waters of salvation are ever healing, and the atoning blood of Jesus is ever-cleansing, come when and where and how the poor, miserable, sin-burthened guilt-oppressed soul may. Hast thou been long in this state of conscious sinfulness? Has no one helped thee to believe in Jesus? Behold, Jesus Himself now passeth by! He sees thee, knows thee, compassionates thee, thou sindistressed soul, and is ready to make thee whole. Thy patient waiting for Christ alone to speak words of comfort, and to assure you with His own tender accents of love that

* Bishop Doane. you are saved, shall not be all in vain. Believe but in Jesus, believe in Him now, simply, only believe, and all the chimes of heaven will announce and celebrate the event of your soul new-born into Christ's kingdom. With joy you may now draw water from the wells of salvation, and henceforth that living stream shall be in thee a well of water springing up into everlasting life. Come without preparation, believe without demur, accept without price, and God will throw around you the paternal arms of His reconciled love.

The blessings that flow from patience in suffering are many and precious. Patience is more than half the removal of the cup, the unclasping of the burden, the healing of the wound. It brings with it peace and joy, and hope passing all understanding. The moment you cease to fret against the Lord, and assert your own will, to kick against His dealings, and to refuse to bow the neck to His yoke, that moment peace, sweet peace, lights upon you as a heaven-descending dove, and enfolds around your spirit her loving wings. Deeply sanctifying, too, is this grace of Christian patience in suffering. There can be no hallowed results of the Divine discipline while the heart is in a state of rebellion against God. The recipe can avail us nothing as a cure while we resist the hand that compounds and administers it. But let faith accept what reason cannot fully understand, let love interpret what sense cannot perfectly decipher, let the heart obey what the judgment cannot wholly grasp in the providential and gracious dealings, revelations, and commandments, of our Heavenly Father, and you are more perfectly conformed to His holiness.

Patience in tribulation will not only bring you into more perfect fellowship with Christ in His suffering, but also into greater nearness to, and a holier fellowship with, the "God of all comfort." You need comfort, you crave comfort, you ask for comfort; and who can grant it you but God? Into what heart does He the most delight to pour the deepest, richest streams of consolation? Is it not the heart of the meek and patient sufferer 1 Listen to His words, "For thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is holy; I dwell in the

high and holy place with him also that is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite oner Take thy place, then, low at His feet, thou suffering child of God, drinking meekly the cup He hath given thee, and thy peace shall flow as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea. "I, even I, am he that comforteth you."

Have I then, with God's blessing, chased one gloomy shadow from thy brow, or quelled one trembling fear in thy heart, suffering Christian? Then give to Him thanksgiving. Paralysed and bed-ridden, you have deemed your life a blank, nay, more, a lost life, and have wondered God has not expelled you from His Church, or removed you from the world. Be still! Remember Him who commended the thoughtful, quiet spirit of Mary above that of the active, bustling Martha, and recall to mind the expressive words of the blind poet sublime—

"They also serve who only wait."

Oh, no! thou art not in Christ's garden a sapless tree, a fruitless branch, a withered, scentless flower. Thy lowly chamber has its teaching, thy suffering couch its mission; and a more Christ-exalting and God-glorifying sermon never woke the rapture of a listening throng than you by your patient endurance, simple faith, peaceful love, and fervent prayer, may preach to all who shall glorify God in you. You have thought that you could glorify Christ more by the service of love—He sees that you can best glorify Him by the patience of love. And now, by a "meek and quiet spirit," by exhibiting the strength of Divine grace in sustaining, and the power of covenant love in soothing the mind in the season of sorrow and weakness, you may scatter golden seeds of truth and comfort along your sad and suffering pathway, which, when the fashion of this world shall for ever have passed away, and the music of its harp and viol and tabret shall be hushed in the waitings of endless despair, will yield to you a harvest of thanksgiving and joy, and to God a revenue of glory and praise holy as His being and lasting as eternity. "Ye have need of patience, that after you have done the will of God you may receive the promise."

HE IS RISEN;"

OS,

THE SIGHT OF A LIVING CHRIST THE JOY OF THE CHRISTIAN.

"Then were the disciples glad when they saw the Lord."—John 20:20.

The three days of our Lord's burial were days of gloom and sadness to the disciples. Not less truly or darkly did the shadows of the grave drape His sacred form than they did the hearts and hopes of His little band of followers. Their faith in His oft-repeated assurance that He would rise again from the dead was faint and fluctuating. To their spiritual eye, vailed by unbelief and dimmed 7. 103 G

. with tears, the Sun of Righteousness, which set in darkness and in blood, had set for ever. Although He had forewarned them He

I should be delivered into the hands of men, that they should kill Him, and that after He was killed He should rise the third day, yet we are told, "they understood not that saying,

\ and were afraid to ask Him." And even after His resurrection was an accomplished and indisputable fact, attested by eye-witnesses, angels and men, and confirmed by many infallible proofs, yet how slow of heart were they to give it their full and unhesitating credence! See we not, beloved, a reflection of our own Christianity in these unbelieving, timid disciples 1 We as faintly believe all that Christ is, all that Christ has

[ done, and all that Christ has promised. The fact that He is risen from the dead, that He is alive in heaven spending His life for us at

l this moment, and that with His our life is essentially and indissolubly bound, is so faintly believed, so imperfectly realized, so

! little lived upon by faith, no marvel that, like the disciples of old, we "walk and are sad,"

j with tears gazing into the tomb in search of a dead Christ, rather than looking above the grave, above sin, above sorrow, above a poor, changing world up to a living Christ in heaven. Strange that we should for a moment lose sight of the fact that true faith, "the faith of God's elect" has solely to do with all that Christ is. God has deposited all our grace and glory in the person of Christ. All the fullness of God, all the promises of God, all the supplies of the covenant, and all the granaries of the gospel, are lodged in the hands of our risen Lord. It follows, then, that faith, the receiving grace of the believer, has to do immediately, simply, and only with Christ. It can believe nothing that Christ has not taught, can obey nothing that Christ has not commanded, can practice nothing that Christ has not exemplified; in short, Christ to true faith is all and in all. It trusts in Christ as a Redeemer, obeys Christ as a Lawgiver, yields allegiance to Christ as a King, lives upon Him as his Preserver, and in grief, and trial, and want repairs to Him as the Brother born for adversity; in a word, turns to Him under all circumstances, as truly and spontaneously as the needle to the magnet, as the flower to the sun.

The fact of the resurrection of Christ must ever be regarded as one of the most essential, and, as a doctrine, one of the most precious of the Christian faith. The argument in support of the fact, as drawn from the experience of the early apostles, is simply this: They went forth enduring every species of scorn, submitting to every kind of persecution, and exposing their lives to every form of death in their firm belief that Christ was risen from the dead. Would they, or could they, have subjected themselves to all this in the propagation of what they knew to be a lie i Impossible! In attempting to crush the new and rising religion, it was everything to the Jewish rulers to prove that Christ was not alive—in propagating and establishing that religion it was everything to the Christian apostles to prove that Christ wa: alive. This was the question of dispute between them. But when the Sanhedrim, in attempt| ing to disprove the fact of the resurrection, substituted physical force for moral argument, violence for proof, and cruelty for evidence, they but demonstrated the fallacy of their own statement and the truth of the apostles'. When, by bribery and corruption, they sought to win over to their cause the Roman soldiers, and by stripes and imprisonment to silence the apostles, who does not see that they betrayed the falsehood of the one statement, that Christ was not risen, and confirmed the truth of the other, that He was? Now we argue that the apostles—men who, on former occasions, had manifested so much natural timidity, and had betrayed so great a want of moral courage—when they went forth and throughout Jerusalem and the provinces, preaching the resurrection of Christ in the face of persecution and death, gave the strongest moral attestation to the fact that their Lord and Master was alive. In support of this truth, they were willing to wade through a sea of tribulation, to be regarded as false witnesses and wild enthusiasts, to suffer the confiscation of property and the loss of personal liberty, to go to a loathsome prison and to meet a martyr's death! My reader, are you a religious skeptic 1 do you disbelieve the truth of Christ's resurrection from the grave? Ponder, I beseech you, honestly, calmly, this one fact—the willingness of the apostles to suffer loss, persecution, and death for their belief of this truth. Who was it that supported these apostles in the fiery furnace which they endured for their faith in this doctrine 1 It was by no natural, no human power and courage that they were sustained. They were suffering for Christ, and they were fortified, strengthened, and upheld by Christ. Think you that God would become a party to a lie 1 that Christ would lend Himself to the propagation of a fiction? that the Holy Spirit would impart might, energy, and fortitude to men who were seeking to palm a falsehood upon the world 1 And yet to this monstrous, this awful conclusion you must come, if you deny the cardinal doctrine of the Christian faith—the resurrection of Christ from the dead. The fact that the apostles bore about with them in their bodies the death of the Lord Jesus—in the sufferings which they endured—was one of the strongest evidences of the life of the Lord Jesus—in the succor which they experienced.

But the resurrection of Christ is not only a historical fact, it is also an essential doctrine and an experimental truth of Christianity. It is in reality the foundation of the fabric—the key-stone of the arch—of our divine and holy faith. The resurrection of Christ is inseparable from the truth of

! the Christian religion. If Christ is alive, then the gospel of Christ is what it affirms itself to be—divine. Viewed in this point of light, it is inexpressibly precious. The believer sees in it the evidence and the pledge of his full pardon, his complete justification,

i of non-condemnation. There is now no condemnation to them who are mystically risen with Him. The argument of the apostle is conclusive—" Who was delivered for our offenses, and was Raised Again for our Justification." That is, Christ was

j surrendered to death to expiate our sins, and was raised again from the dead to justify our persons. By the death of our Lord a full atonement was made for sin, and by His resurrection our complete acceptance with God was sealed and secured. His death would have availed us nothing apart from His resurrection. The one would have been imperfect but for the other. It is true, justice would have been satisfied, but the evidence of that satisfaction had been wanting if Jesus had not come back from the grave. There was death so long as He remained a prisoner within the tomb. A great stone lay upon the hope and salvation of the Church. But when He rose from the dead, He rose as the " Resurrection and the Life " of His people. He then gave to the universe full proof that His work was complete and accepted of the Father, that His sacrifice was perfect and approved, and that henceforth whosoever believed in Him were fully pardoned, freely justified, and eternally saved. But we return to the apostles.

After much doubt and hesitation, the glorious fact burst upon their minds with overpowering conviction that their Lord was alive, that Christ was risen from the dead. A new world glowing with life and beauty seemed to unvail to their view. "Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is for I

the eyes to behold the sun." After three days of entombment, according to His promise, often made and as often disbelieved, j He rose from the dead, and once more, as! of old, appeared alive in their midst. Again they saw their beloved Friend, heard the wellknown tones of His voice, gently touched His wounds, and ate the bread He brake. And now their gladness was great! Their night of weeping had brightened into a morning of joy; and, filled with the thought of His resurrection, their hearts glowing with the truth that He who was dead was alive | again, and lived, to succor, to comfort and j to be ever with them, they went forth to chant j through the wide world their Easter Hymn of gladness—"the Lord Is Risen Indeed!" !" Then were the disciples glad when they saw j the Lord."

Not less vital or joyous to us is the truth that Christ is alive. What to the first disciples was a gladsome object of sense is to us a yet more gladsome object of faith. They beheld their living Lord with a bodily, \ we with a spiritual eye. They believed be| cause they saw, we believe though we see not. Our mind rests upon a less material, but more spiritual and assuring evidence, since faith is a higher, more convincing and God-glorifying principle than sight. Hence our Lord said to Thomas, "Because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed; blessed are they that have nki seen, and yet have believed." Listen to the language of the apostle, " Whom having not seen you love, in whom, though now ye see Him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory." In what sense, then, should the truth of a living Savior be a cause of joy and gladness to the Christian?

First, it is a soul-quickeni?ig truth. There is no spiritual life but that which flows from Christ. "Iam come" says our Lord, '' that ye might have life, and that ye might have it more abundantly!' The apostle confirms this truth when he says, " Christ, who is our life? The inference from this fact is a solemn one, viz., that he who has not Christ has not life! That, whatever may be the vigor of his natural life, the splendor of his intellectual life, the purity of his mrral life, the strictness of his religious life, if he has no spiritual, vital, personal union with a risen Christ, he is dead while he lives, and when he dies, is the heir of the second death, whose worm never dieth, whose fire is never quenched. "Awake, thou that steepest, arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee life." But how replete with the material of true joy is the life of Christ to His people! Life, beautiful in any form, was transcendently so when "Christ who is our life" rose from the dead. So long as our Lord remained locked in the rigid chain of death, and in the cold embrace of the tomb, the life of the Church was in eclipse, vailed with the deep, dark shadows of the grave. But when He broke that chain, and emerged from that imprisonment, life and immortality appeared as in a new form and with more resplendent glory, and took its place in the universe as never seen before. Never before had death slain so illustrious a victim, or the grave held so great a prisoner, or had both been so signally defeated, as when the Son of God died and rose again. All this was representative. How much we overlook the substitutionary life of Jesus. How faintly we realize our personal identity with the Savior in all that He did as the Head of the Church, as the Surety and Mediator of His people. The risen life of Christ is the resurrection life of our souls. As mystically we were crucified with Christ, so mystically we are risen with Christ. Figuratively, we are "buried with Him in baptism, and are risen with Him through the faith of the operation of God, who hath raised Him from the dead," (Colossians 2:12.) Blessed union! One with Christ in all that He did. One life in many forms—the risen life of Jesus pulsating in countless myriads of living souls; the whole Body, the Church, quickened with new vitality from the new-born life of its Divine and Risen Head. Let the life you live, beloved, be a life of faith in the resurrection-life of Christ. And when you are conscious that your spiritual life is depressed, that its pulse beats faintly, and its actings are fitful; that faith is weak and the j spirit of prayer languishes, that grace is at a low ebb, and that your soul mounts, if it mount at all, towards God and heaven but

upon a feeble wing, then travel afresh to the resurrection-life of the Savior, and give Him no rest until you feel afresh the quickening power of His resurrection in your soul. Be not satisfied with mere spiritual existence, a moral vegetation only in the Lord's garden; aim after the higher life, and after the highest development of that life—even to know your individual and vital oneness with Christ in His resurrection. Oh, holy, happy life this! Clouds may wreath your sky, thorns may strew your path, your faith may be assailed, your circumstances may be trying, your spirit sad and lonely, but yet, walking in sweet fellowship with a risen Christ, you will rise above it all, filled with the peace, joy, and gladness which the believing sight of a living Savior ever inspires. Then will you be enabled in some blessed measure to enter into the apostle's exalted experience, "I am crucified with Christ: nevertheless I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me, and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God, 7uho loved me and gave Himself for me"

A believing apprehension of a living Christ seals the conscience with peace. Peace is a precious, priceless jewel. None possess it but those who are sprinkled with the peacespeaking blood of Jesus. Peace springing from a sense of friendship with God, of pardoned sin, of acceptance in Christ, of life with a living Savior, is theirs only who have felt in their souls the power of Christ's resurrection. The sense and enjoyment of peace may fluctuate because the spiritual life is a ceaseless conflict with the flesh, with corroding doubts and unbelieving fears, with outward assaults, temptations, and trials; so that the peace of the believer is often interrupted and ruffled by hostile and disturbing influences. But Christ is alive! Walking upon the broken waves of our doubts and fears, He comes to us in all the majesty of Divine power and the meekness of human compassion, and says, "Peace, be still, and there is a great calm." Oh, how gladsome is the soul when thus it sees the Lord! In all this holy war between the old man and the new, with all the " mire and dirt" which indwelling sin, "like the troubled sea," is ever casting up, with all your battle with doubts and fears, only realize your oneness, not so much with the life of Christ, as with a personal, living Christ Himself, and you shall know the peace of God in your soul, passing all understanding. Because Christ lives, indwelling sin shall not slay you. It will struggle for the mastery, the flesh will contend for the pre-eminence, but the power of a living Savior through the indwelling of the Spirit will prevail, and sin shall not have dominion over you.

Not less effectual is a sight of our living Lord in the removal of spiritual doubts and in the quelling of unbelieving fear. Until these disciples "saw the Lord," saw Him in His risen, resurrection-life, their minds were assailed by carnal reasoning and unbelieving despondency. "Is this the Christ that should come 1 Is His religion true? Was He a deceiver, and are we the victims of the deception? Will He really come back again from the grave 1 Will He fulfill His promise? Shall we once more behold the form that attracted us, hear the voice that charmed us, feel the presence that soothed us, and again lean our head upon His loving heart 1" But all this carnal reasoning vanished, all these unbelieving doubts and fears gave way, when they saw the Lord, as the

'gray mists and spectral illusions of the morning vanish before the light and splendor of the ascending sun. By like spiritual doubts and fears are we, beloved, often assailed. Seeing more and more clearly the sin that dwelleth in us, knowing increasingly the spiritual war, the fight of faith, we are ready to doubt our saintship, to renounce our sonship, and to relinquish our humble hope of ever reaching heaven at last. But one simple, believing sight of Jesus alive, ever living to make intercession that our weak, assailed, and trembling faith fail not, disperses all our doubts, annihilates all our fears, silences our fleshly reasoning, and reassures our trembling souls with the blessed hope that, because Christ lives we shall live

, also. Thus, then, when assailed by doubts and fears touching your salvation, behold afresh your risen Lord. Realise His life in your soul. One sight of Jesus, one throb of

! His risen life, one moment's realization of your present oneness with Him who came back from the grave to seal for ever the justification of all who believe in Him, will lift you from the region of uncertainty and cloud into the meridian of assurance and joy, awaking in your soul the exclamation, "This is my Beloved, and this is my Friend? Now I believe and am sure that this is the very Christ of God, the Savior of sinners, even of me!"

A sight of Christ alive will make your afflicted and sorrowful heart joyful. Never was sadness so real turned into joy so great as when the first disciples once more saw their risen and living Lord. Sorrow, beloved, is the heritage of all God's people. The disciples and followers of the "Man of sorrows and acquainted with grief" can we expect or even desire that it should be otherwise? Thus, for the members to be assimilated to the Head is a great privilege and honor. Deem not, then, that some strange thing has happened unto you if your Lord calls you to drink a cup of bitter woe, to tread a path of piercing sorrow, to bear a cross that chafes or a burden that crushes you, since it is the royal road to heaven. Little, oh, how little, would you know of the blessedness of possessing spiritual life in, of drawing fresh life from, Jesus —life-supporting, life-soothing, life-sanctifying—but for the very discipline of suffering and of trial through which you are, perhaps, now passing. The Lord is writing death upon some living blessing, is blighting some blooming mercy, is enshrouding in the grave some choice and precious treasure of your heart, and your cup of sorrow overflows. Is all dead? is all gone? Is He Himself, who has blasted health, who has broken the strong and beautiful staff, who has dried up earth's resources, who has emptied you from vessel to vessel, entirely and for ever withdrawn? Oh, no! Jesus lives! He lives to strengthen you in weakness, to make all your bed in sickness, to supply all your temporal! need, to give you a much greater blessing than He has removed, and to stand fast by your side when days are dark, and riches take wing, and friends prove false, and health decays, and suffering and weakness incapacitate you for service and isolate you from God's sanctuary.

The season of bereavement is one in which

!

a believing apprehension of a risen, living Savior brings to the mind especial comfort and repose. When death flings its deep, cold shade upon life's sunniest spots, then faith takes hold of a living Friend—a Friend and Brother who, though once dead, is alive again, and lives for evermore. Oh, how sweet is this life of Jesus in the moment of death! If " in the midst of life," as the beautiful service for the burial of the dead expresses it, " we are in death," in a nobler sense he who has a living Christ in him can exclaim, "In the midst of death I am in life." The Lord, dear reader, may write the sentence of death on earth's fairest, dearest mercy, but He has erased that sentence from your soul and its solemn future. The sentence of death is repealed and cancelled in all those who believe in a risen and living Savior, and not even shall they "see death" when he, the "last enemy," draws near to break the silver cord and let the ransomed spirit free. But death has entered your abode, and its ravages and its blank are unmistakable, sad, and painful. You feel his icy shadow is upon you. You behold the ravages of the spoiler in the faded leaf, in the broken stem, in the smitten flower, and your lone and darkened home is but the emblem of your more lonely and darkened heart! But be still! Jesus is alive and lives for you. All that you have lost in the counsel of that wise father, all that you miss in the love of that fond mother, all that you possessed in the strong arm of that kind-hearted brother, or in the sweet devotion of that affectionate wife, or in the Faithful, filial attachment of that dear child, you have now in the love, the wisdom, the protection, the presence of a living Savior. Death cannot rob you of this precious treasure. He will guide your future of perplexity with His counsel, He will light your future loneliness with His smile, He will strengthen your weak frame with His encircling arm, and will bid you repose your weary, aching head where the beloved disciple gently rested his—upon the bosom of your risen, living Lord. Oh, let your faith, then—though it be a weeping faith, a feeble faith, a lowly, trembling faith, a faith that bends in tears over the grave that seems to entomb all that made life so sweet and now death less bitter—let it rise above the coffin, the shroud, the dust, and see Jesus only, still wearing your bereaved nature, and bending upon you from His throne in heaven an eye of unutterable tenderness, sympathy, and love. Nor this alone. The resurrection of Christ is the pledge that you shall meet again those loved ones from whom you have lately parted and who died in the Lord. The hope of the believer is a living hope, because it is a hope in a living Christ. "God hath begotten us again unto a lively (a living, real) hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead." Yes, we shall see them again !" For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so those also which sleep in Jesus will Gjd bring with Him." Let us then, fellow-bereaved, comfort one another with these soothing words and with this glorious hope!

In the spiritual conflict of the Christian, the power arising from faith dealing with the risen life of Christ, is appropriate and mighty. It is only as we enter into the death of Christ that we can have fellowship with Him in His life. We must be partakers of His death ere we become partakers of His resurrection. It is in the daily cross we are bearing of the dying of Jesus, that we learn the blessedness of the life of Jesus. Thus the apostle puts it—" Always bearing about in the body the Dying of the Lord Jesus, that the LIFE also of fesus might be made manifest in our body," (2 Corinthians 4:10.) Hence, as previously remarked, the thought and the feeling that Christ was alive, which strengthened the apostles for service, nerved them for trial, soothed them in sorrow, and sustained them in suffering and in death. It was only as they bore about the dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life of Jesus was made manifest in them. They believed that He was alive, and they proved that He was alive. It was to them not an empty fiction, but a confirmed fact; not an empty theory, but blessed and! precious experience. And is it less so with I us t We, too, exclaim—" I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live. I go to a risen, living Christ weak, I come away strengthened; I go to Him sad, I return rejoicing; I go to Him carrying a heavy burden, and am lightened. I take to Him my sins, my backslidings, my infirmities, my guilt, and He raises me out of the horrible pit and the miry clay, and places my feet upon a Rock, even the Rock that is higher than I, and puts a new song into my mouth, even salvation unto my God—and now, I need no trumpet-tongue of angel, or silver voice of man, to announce that Jesus is alive and lives in heaven for me. I have, in the grace which He gives, in the strength which He inspires, in the love, sympathy, and smile with which He soothes and cheers me, proof which no foe can gainsay that Jesus lives, and ever lives to make intercession for me within the vail." This spiritual subject is eminently practical; and,indeed, the more spiritual any truth or ministry of the truth is, the more deeply sanctifying will the spiritually-minded Christian experience it to be.

The first use we should make of it is earnestly to seek to know more of the Power of Christ's resurrection in our souls. It has a vitalising influence of which the believer, raised from a death of sin to a life of righteousness, is blessedly sensible. It is a mighty lever this to raise the soul above the world, sin, and death. If the corpse flung into the grave of the Prophet quickened into life by contact with the body of the buried seer, how much more shall we, who believe in Jesus, feel the quickening, life-increasing | power of a daily faith in the resurrection of j the Great Prophet of the Church—Jesus Christ 1 Oh, deeply sanctifying truth! Who feels not the solemnity and power of the apostle's magnificent reasoning on this subject? "If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, ivhere Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection (mind) on things above, not on things on the earth. For ye are dead, 'and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory." This it is to feel the power of Christ's resurrection; it is to rise above the things of sense, the attractions of earth, the pleasures of the world, the power of sin, to mortify our members, and to have our mind, and heart and hopes in heaven, where our precious Treasure, our living, loving Savior, is.

Weeping mourner after Jesus, gaze not down into the empty grave, but up to the glorious throne where your Savior is. He is not here, "He is risen." You are, perhaps, earnestly seeking Him. You long to see Him, to hear His sin-pardoning voice, to have a manifestation of His risen life to your soul. Let your faith look up! Come away from the emptiness, the silence, and the grave-clothes of the tomb, and gaze up into heaven, and see Him who was crucified for you, now alive to pray for you at the Father's right hand. Doubt not either His willingness or His power to save you. "He is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by Him, seeing He Ever Liveth to make intercession for them" Oh, the magic, the life-giving power of these words, "save to the uttermost!" Sin-distressed, guilt-burdened soul, will you, can you, now despair 1 Look at your darkest, vilest sins—look at your deepest, greatest unworthiness—look into the mouth of the bottomless pit, glowing, flashing with the fires of a hell you have so long and so richly deserved—then, let your weak and trembling faith uplift its eye and gaze upon Christ in heaven, alive to save your soul to the uttermost of all its crime, to the uttermost of all its -guilt and hell- j deserving, and you shall rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory.

Who can doubt, from this truth, the final blessedness, the eternal glory, of all the Lord's people? The life of every believing soul is bound up in the life of Christ. Listen to! His life-inspiring, life-sustaining declaration, "Because I Live, Ye Shall Live Also." The risen and glorified life of Jesus is the earnest and the security of the everlasting bliss of every humble believer. Not one shall perish. Not a poor sinner who has touched in faith the hem of His robe shall die—no, not one. As the excellent Abraham Booth somewhere observes, If any one may perish whom God the Father gave to His Son, two might perish; and if two, why not a hundred ?—and if a hundred, why not a thousand ?—and if a thousand, why not all? Hence our dear Lord says, "All that the Father giveth me shall come to me? and coming to Him in grace

now, they shall most assuredly come to Him in glory hereafter.

How certain and glorious is the first resurrection of the saints !" Now is Christ risen from, the dead, and become the First Fruits of them that sleft." Christ the first fruits! Oh, what a glorious harvest, then, will the angel reapers sickle, and heaven's garners treasure up! All, from the believing Adam to the last believing sinner on earth, will rise on that bright morning, and enter upon the thousand years of millennial bliss and glory, undimmed by a cloud, and undisturbed by a wail of the despair which will gather round 'the rest of the dead,' who shall 'rise to shame and everlasting contempt.' Oh, to have part in the first resurrection; for on such the second death shall have no power! Strive, brother, sister, strive against sin, against the world, and against Satan, "if by any means you might attain unto the resurrection of the dead"

What a fearful thing to have no prospect of a happy and glorious resurrection! To be looking forward to a Christless death, and a hopeless burial, and a resurrection to all the untold, inconceivable horrors of the second death! Behold, I place before you life and death! Count you your soul of so little worth, your endless future so unsubstantial a dream, as to imperil the precious salvation of the one and to forego the eternal blessedness of the other for the earthly riches, the sensual joys, the shadowy honors of a moment! Fly to Christ—this moment fly. Escape for your life! Fall in penitence at His feet, and ask Him that you might "know Him, and the power of His resurrection, and the fellowship of His sufferings, and be made conformable to His death."

Another practical deduction from this subject is, to live in the continuous realization of our identity with the life of Christ. It is the same spiritual life pulsating in the souls of all the regenerate, and that life is from Christ. He imparts it, He nourishes it, He preserves it. It follows, then, from this that we are as believers to live upon a living Christ, to prove to the world that He is alive by His life manifest in our mortal bodies. We go to Christ weak, and are made strong; we go to Him sorrowful, and we rejoice; we go to Him burdened, and we are lightened; and so, while we bear about with us the dying of the Lord Jesus—dying to sin and to the world and to self, and enduring persecution and loss for His name—we also bear about with us the life of the Lord Jesus in its daily succourings, consolation, and joy. And what a sanctifying truth is this! Did we manfully realize the oneness of our life with Christ, how holy should we be as becometh those whose life is hid with Christ in God. Bearing about with us the consciousness of a life so divine and heavenly, life so pure and holy, how should we tremble to plunge into society and scenes, or embark in enterprises and engagements with which we know our Lord could have no sympathy or fellowship! Oh, saint of God! remember whose life and what a life dwells within you! Can you willingly compromise such a life by a worldly course, or by indulged sin 1 Thou art a living temple —for Christ dwells in thee by the Spirit .

Nor would I fail to remind you how ready Christ is to breathe His life into you more abundantly. When spiritual decays creep in, and converse with God languishes, and eternal realities lose their all-commanding control of your mind and heart and life, then fly to Christ for life more abundant. Go and draw a fresh inspiration from Him, "the fountain of life." Ask Jesus to quicken and j revive you afresh. Tell Him that your life | languishes, that grace decays, that love is cold, that faith is weak, and that you are in your-, self powerless to resist the world, the flesh, j: and Satan. Oh, how blessedly will He, in | I response to your prayer, cause the fresh springs of life to flow through your soul, now to pulsate with stronger life, and bloom with richer beauty, and ripen into more golden fruit. Is this your spiritual state t Are you living upon the life of Christ 1 So living, you will die daily; and in daily dying, behold you live!

"Dying, yet in Christ we live!

Living, yet in Christ we die! » i

We die to sin, we live to God,

Eternally, immortally.

"Living, and behold we die!

Dying, yet from death we rise!

This is our resurrection-life—

The life beyond the skies.

222 j

"Savior, give us now Thy grace,

Quicken us to faith and love;

Be now our life, and through Thy death

May we have life above." *

Once more I implore you to seek by ear| nest, persevering prayer, spiritual life from Christ. Oh that you may now hear the voice of the Son of God and live! Renounce your deadly doings, your lifeless ritual, and touch by faith the Savior's hem, and you shall live. Jesus was never known to spurn from Him a suppliant who humbly sought at His hands this life—nor will He spurn you! Then, when you have received it in your soul, let it have full, unfettered scope, nothing j of the old nature deadening its power or shading its light. Soon—oh, how soon!— it will ascend to the source from whence it came, and lose itself in the boundless ocean

Of LIFE ETERNAL!

Grant, O Lord, that as we are baptized into the death of thy blessed Son, our Savior Jesus Christ, so by continually mortifying our corrupt affections we may be buried with

* W. P. W.

Him; and that through the grave and gate of death we may pass to our joyful resurrection; for His merits, who died and was buried, and rose again for us, Thy Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

"I AM JESUS

CHRIST'S CONVERSION OF PAULA

CHRISTIAN EVIDENCE.

"Straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues, that He is the Son of God."—Acts 9:20.

The conversion of Saul of Tarsus has ever been considered one of the most conclusive evidences of the truth, and one of the most distinguished trophies of the power, of • the Christian faith on record. So convincing and impressive indeed that a branch of the Christian Church has, in its devotional formula, appointed a distinct place for its special recognition and remembrance. 8. 225 H

In what point of light soever we view this triumph of the Savior's free and sovereign grace, it must afford instruction to the mind, comfort to the heart, and establishment to the faith of the Christian; and to the latest period of time exist as a monument of God's great love to sinners, holding out hope to the most despairing, and testifying that God, who had mercy upon Saul of Tarsus, will extend a like mercy to the vilest sinner seeking in penitence and faith a like interest in the Savior's pardoning grace. Such is His own testimony. "For this cause I obtained mercy, that in me first Jesus Christ might shew forth all long suffering, for a pattern to them which should hereafter believe on Him to life everlasting!' And then we read that, immediately after his conversion, "straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues, that He is the Son of God." Did we, in our present exposition, strictly adhere to these words, we should speak, in their order, of the preacher—as confirming the truth of Christianity; of the subject-matter of the preaching—as evidencing the nature of Christianity; and of the place of the preaching—as evidencing the triumph of Christianity. Without, however, pledging myself to a minute examination of each of these points in detail, we may yet keep them in view as landmarks guiding our present meditation upon the subject which we propose to illustrate by these words—The conversion of Saul of Tarsus, an evidence of the truth of the Christian religion.

Christianity lacks no evidence. Occupying the central position of all truth, it attracts universal notice, challenges the closest scrutiny, and summons its testimony from every object and source. All modern attempts of infidelity to impugn the divinity, to sap and undermine the foundation of our holy faith, have been met, answered, and exploded a thousand times over: and the gospel 01 Christ has invariably come forth from the battle and the scrutiny, its evidence all the stronger, its glory all the brighter, wearing fresh laurels and girt with new strength. The discoveries of science and the march of intellect have but accumulated around the gospel increased proofs of its divinity, while the foes of our faith, retiring from the conflict discomforted and dismayed, have but foamed forth their shame and revenge as the billow hurled from the rock against which it thundered but which it could not move.

Let us look for a moment at his conversion. What were the moral antecedents of Saul of Tarsus 1 In general terms, he was what we all are by nature—the children of wrath, even as others. There breathes not an individual of the race who is not involved in the fall and wreck of humanity —whose nature is not originally and totally alienated and depraved, tainted by sin and accursed of God; who, dying in that state, unrenewed, unconverted by the Holy Ghost, must pass into eternity but to endure its inconceivable, indescribable, and never-ending woe. "All have sinned, and come short of the glory of God." "There is none righteous, no, not one" Such is the testimony of Scripture. But in addition to that which we hold in common with him, there was a strong development of the carnal mind in Saul, which brought out his enmity against God in bold relief, and took the form of avowed and virulent hostility to Christ and His Church. Reviewing at a subsequent period this part of his history, he employs this language, " Verily I thought with myself that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth" "Being exceedingly mad against them, I persecuted them even unto strange cities." So sworn a foe of Christ, and so decided an enemy to the truth, he was the last man, we might have supposed, who would eventually become not only a convert to the faith, but one of its greatest and boldest preachers. One could scarcely have selected from the entire ranks of Christ's enemies, an individual less likely to become a disciple and apostle of the Savior. As soon might we have expected Caiaphas would have torn the ephod from his breast and the tiara from his brow, and, trampling them in the dust at the Savior's feet, avow himself henceforth Christ's follower. One would almost as soon have expected Pilate himself—the vacillating, temporizing Pilate—would have descended from his judgment-seat and have bowed the knee in homage to Christ, as that the bloodthirsty Saul of Tarsus, the bitter and relentless persecutor of the saints,

should become a sincere believer in, and the chief apostle of, the Lord Jesus. And yet mark the great change through which he passed. Armed with authority from the Sanhedrim to arrest all whom he found professing Christ, he himself was arrested by a higher power and for a nobler end. A glory brighter than the noontide sun shone around him. What was that glory? It was as though the Shekinah of the ancient temple had returned to earth with augmented and transcendent luster—it was the glory of Jesus which now shone around him with blinding and overpowering effulgence, from which there came a voice saying, "I am Jesus, whom ihou persecutest." In a moment the rebel was disarmed, the foe was conquered, and the proud pharisee was smitten to the ground, conquered, regenerated, saved!

By whom and by what was this remarkable and instantaneous revolution effected? Was it natural or supernatural 1 human or divine? Let the disciple of a cold, skeptical philosophy reply. By no process of training was this wonderful change preceded. In a moment, as in the twinkling of an eye, the cry burst from his lips, "Lord, what wilt thou have me to do i" To what can we ascribe this extraordinary awakening, this remarkable revolution of thought and feeling, but the power of God? Behold the change! The hand that had just grasped the weapon that was to slay was now uplifted in supplication. The knees that stood firm as a rock when Stephen was writhing in death's agonies now smote each other in fear. The eye that gloated upon the fast-flowing blood of Christ's first martyr now overflowed with tears of penitence. The man who was mad against the saints a moment before was now at the feet of Jesus pleading for mercy and suing for service. Again, I ask, is not this instance of regenerating power, of converting grace, an evidence of the divine nature of the religion of Christ such as all its enemies cannot gainsay, carrying conviction to every ingenuous, honest mind in favor of the divinity of that religion which could transform such a nature as Saul of Tarsus into the nature of God 1 And what was his subsequent career? From that hour he became one of the

greatest of saints and one of the foremost apostles of Christ. Follow him from the moment that he cried, "Lord, what wilt thou have me to do ?" until he closed his career I by a martyr's death, and every candid mind must acknowledge that neither the history or the martyrology of the Christian Church ever presented a character more illustrative of the sovereign grace of Christ, and more demonstrative of the divine truth of Christianity than Paul's. My reader, why have I dwelt thus long and earnestly upon the conversion of Pauli Why, but to carry conviction home to your heart, as by the power of the Holy Ghost, of the truth that such must you become if you share the grace that made Paul what he was, and partake of the glory into which he has entered. Conversion is essentially and unchangeably the same in every age, clime, and individual. The new birth is in all the regenerate alike the advent of a new nature in the soul, involving a new governing principle, new affections, a new mind, leading to a new and holy life, a life henceforth lived unto God. This new nature is

divine, and, therefore, sinless. It is essentially different from our old nature, which we derive from the first Adam, and which, in common with the race, is wholly fallen and totally corrupt—not only' very far gone,' but gone to the farthest distance from original righteousness, and to the utmost limit of sin. The testimony of God's word is explicit, "All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. There is none good, no, not one." But, as I have remarked, regeneration is the implanting of a new nature in the believer, not the old mended and repaired. Hence the apostle John employs this striking language, personating the new nature in the regenerate—" Whosoever is born of God, doth not commit sin; for His seed remaineth in him: and he cannot sin because he is bom of God." (1 John 3:9.) Corresponding with this is the language of the apostle Paul, "Puton the New Man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness" (Ephesians 4:24.) "And have put on the New Man, which is renewed in knowledge \ after the image of Him that created him" ^Colossians 3:10.) Could language, even inspired by the Holy Ghost, be more explicit 1 Thus the regenerate man bears about with him two natures, essentially different, and yet ever in the closest union; deadly opposed, and yet inseparably united. Hence the apostle, referring to the Roman mode of punishment, speaks of his bearing about with him a body of death and corruption. "O wretched man that I am! who shall deliver me from the body of this death i" The interpretation which we thus present of the new nature in the believer will explain the spiritual conflict which the regenerate daily wage, and, not clearly understanding which, many of the Lord's people are led into much mental distress and spiritual bondage and fear. 'You have often thought, O Christian, that you cannot possibly be a true child of God because of the battle raging within you, the law in your members warring against the law of your mind, and bringing you into captivity to the law of sin which is in your members. Oh, how mournfully have you travailed because of this! How have you made your bed to swim with tears, and the solitude of the desert to echo with sighs! But take heart, dear child of God! Wert thou " dead in trespasses and in sins," thou wouldst be insensible to the spiritual conflict of the "two armies" within thee—the flesh and the spirit. Thy conscience would be asleep, thy heart motionless, thy mind blinded, and thy whole soul wrapt in the shroud of spiritual death. Satan and the world, too, would continue their efforts to renew the anodyne, and to rock the cradle of thy spiritual slumber, lest thou shouldst awake from thy sleep, and arise from the dead, and Christ should give thee light, and thou shouldst be saved. Oh, what reason hast thou to thank God for the least evidence of moral feeling, for the faintest pulse of spiritual life, though it be but a sigh, a groan, a tear, a smiting on the breast, a breathing to heaven the prayer, " God be merciful to me a sinner!" Is the Spirit of God showing to thee more deeply thy sinfulness and poverty, thy weakness and need 1 Dost thou seem in thine own eye to grow worse and hot better, viler and not holier, to go backward and not forward 1 Blessed teaching, beloved, is this! The schools could not instruct you thus. Philosophy could teach you no lesson likethis. "Flesh and blood" is impotent here. Have you cast from you the garment of your your own righteousness, coming to Christ "wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked" accepting Him as your only righteousness, believing in Him as your only salvation, reposing in Him as your only rest? Then be it known to you that these are divine drawings, these are holy leadings, this is God's work in your soul. I give you the words of Jesus for this assertion, "No man can come to me, except the Father,

which hath sent me, draw him Every

man that hath heard, and hath learned of the Father, cometh unto me" (John 6:44, 45.) Accept then, beloved, your spiritual awakening, your humbling discoveries, the deep insight into your own heart, the conflict within of which you are so acutely, so painfully sensible, the tears that moisten your pillow, the groans that wake the solitude of the desert, the sighs that float upon the air, as marks of grace, as symptoms of life, as evidences that you are born again, have, by God's grace, been translated out of darkness into light, and from the power of Satan unto God. Oh, blessed, unerring signs of your adoption, your high calling, your heirship to eternal glory!

In further consideration of the conversion of Paul, we are arrested by his Preaching. "And Straightway he preached Christ" "Straightway." This is a remarkable expression—a volume in a word; the moment he was converted he became a preacher of Christ. He waited for no preparation, sought no authority from the Church, asked for no orders from man, applied for no diploma from the schools; but the moment that the discovery of the Lord Jesus Christ was made to his mind, he became Christ's bold, earnest, and powerful preacher. This feature is too significant and suggestive to be lightly overlooked. Still we must guard ourselves here. We do not infer from this that an individual may devote himself ably and successfully to the work of the Christian ministry apart from a previous process of spiritual and mental training, qualifying him for the holy and solemn functions of his high office. Far from this. We can see no exact parallel between the case of the apostle Paul and that of an individual called by grace by ordinary means. It is generally admitted that the conversion of Paul was miraculous. Prior to this his mind had undergone a thorough intellectual training in one of the first schools of learning, and at the feet of Rabbi Gamaliel, one of the most renowned doctors of the law. His mental culture was of no imperfect cast. It is evident, from his writings, that he was not only profoundly taught in Jewish lore, but that his mind was singularly familiar with the philosophers of Greece and with the poets of Rome. No advocate, therefore, of an uneducated ministry can properly cite the great apostle of the Gentiles as sustaining his idea or as illustrating his theory. And yet, at the same time, I am prepared to concede that I see no reason, when God converts an intelligent individual by His grace—his heart glowing with love to the Savior and with yearning for the salvation of souls—why he should not go forth through the length and breadth of the land preaching Christ and evangelizing as he goes. The authority to preach with which we are invested is not from a church. Our ordination, as received from man, conveys no priestly power, and confers upon us no prescriptive right to expound the mysteries of God's Word. We are ministers, and not priests; we do not make, we but proclaim a sacrifice offered once for all— the one sacrifice of Christ. We administer the sacraments not sacerdotally but ministerially. The administration of the rite of baptism and of the Lord's Supper possesses no more virtue or efficacy, coming from the hands of the highest ecclesiastical dignitary, than from those of the most humble evangelist in the land. It is well, however, that those who, like Saul of Tarsus, straightway preach Christ, should, like him, receive the recognition and be set apart by the prayers of the Church. Then may he with confidence and power go forth, seeking to bring others to a saving knowledge of that Savior whom he has found so precious to his own soul.

This conducts us to the subject-matter of Paul's preaching. "Straightway he Preached Christ." Dilating at some length upon this vital and important part of our subject, I must crave the indulgence of my readers. The reply to the question, "What is it to preach Christ?" embraces a wide range of truth. There may be much preaching so denominated which yet presents no scriptural claim to the character. It is marvelous how much may pass current with men for the real in divinity, and for the true in religion, which yet passes not current with the Lord. An individual may preach theology without God, Christianity without Christ, the cross without the atonement, and the Bible without revelation! But Saul of Tarsus "straightway preached Christ." Before we attempt to show what this involves, let me remind my reader briefly of the position of the apostle. He had to cope with difficulties and opposition of every kind. In the first place, he was confronted by the hoary religion of Judaism. There was much the Jew could allege in favor of his religion. It was divine, it was ancient, it was taught in the writings of the prophets. His arguments were many, his reasoning strong, his prejudices unconquerable. And yet the apostle in the face of all this preached Christ Jesus and Him crucified. In addition to this, he had to cope with the philosophy of Greece and with the heathenism of Rome. And it was here, I imagine, the trained intellect and the well-stored mind of Paul came to his help. It was here he felt the advantage of his previous mental culture. But still he changed not his theme. Still he preached Christ and the resurrection. And whether he confronted the pharisaical Jew in the synagogue, or reasoned with the skeptical philosopher on Mars' Hill, Jesus Christ was his one, his only, his grand, his invariable theme. Much may be learnt from this. There is a strong tendency in the minds of some to meet the errors of the day by other and less authorized and potent means than the preaching in stern simplicity the Gospel of the grace of God. But it is a great and a fatal mistake. The experiment has been tried again and again, ,and has failed. The preaching of the Lord Jesus Christ in the demonstration and power of the Holy Ghost, is the only divinelyappointed instrument of destroying false religion, overthrowing error, and converting the soul, and the only one God Himself will acknowledge and the Holy Spirit bless. But the question still recurs, What is implied in preaching Christ?

Paul preached Christ in the divine dignity of His person. He had so overwhelming a demonstration of this truth in his remarkable conversion, that ever after, in all the discourses he delivered, and epistles he penned, he testified to the Godhead of the Savior with an apostle's zeal and with a martyr's firmness. The true preaching of Christ remains unalterably the same. We cannot, my reader, properly preach Christ without in the very foreground placing this grand article of our creed—this fundamental doctrine of our faith—that Christ and God are one, that Jesus Christ is as truly God, as essentially Divine, as the Father. The whole fabric of Christianity rests upon this great doctrine as its basis. Cut from beneath us the doctrine of the essential Deity of Christ —sweep away the Divinity of the Son of God, and on what do we stand? in what is our hope for eternity 1 I marvel not that men who deny the Godhead of Christ deny also the sacrifice of Christ; the one stands or falls with the other. If my Savior be but a mere creature; if He be but a man like myself; if He be not everlastingly and essentially God; then I can have no confix dence in His death. The saving efficacy of the death of Christ—the obedience of Christ —the sacrifice of Christ—the blood of Christ —the power of Christ to save—all springs from the Godhead of Christ. If Christ is Divine—if my Savior is God—then my hope is resting on Divinity—my salvation is based on Deity, and I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I commit unto Him until the last great day. Hold fast this great, cardinal, precious doctrine; of our faith—the essential Deity of Christ. Entertain no doubts, indulge in no cavillings, give heed to no reasonings and debatings tending to shake your faith in this doctrine; cast not away your confidence in this truth; it is your life! The more firmly your faith is built on the essential Deity of Christ, the more will you realize the Atonement to be what it is, the more will you realize the joy and comfort that springs from the one sacrifice He has offered for poor sinners. Why is it that the blood of Jesus Christ can wash the soul, all guilty as it is, whiter than snow 1 Why is it that the righteousness of Christ, imputed by the Spirit and received by faith, will present you before God justified from all things 1 It is because your Savior is Divine, your Redeemer is God, and has imparted the virtue of His Godhead, the dignity of His higher nature, to His atoning sacrifice.

I have anticipated my second observation, that, to preach Christ we must preach the Sacrifice and Atonement of Christ without qualification or reserve. This is a day of much criminal reserve, of holding back bold, uncompromising statements of these great and essential verities of our faith. Men styled evangelical seem afraid to place in the front rank of their preaching these great doctrines of the Gospel; whereas, the Gospel of Christ is what it ever has been, and the work of Christ is what it ever has been—of vital, essential moment to souls speeding to the judgment. No change in modern modes of thought, or of opinion, or of education, or of philosophy, has altered, in the slightest degree, the essential nature and the vital importance of the great doctrines of Christianity. We are not to adapt our preaching to the education, the philosophy, or the politics of the times. We are to preach the same old glorious Gospel which the apostle Paul preached when he uplifted the cross of Christ as the only hope of a lost and a ruined world, and declared that by this Name—this one Name, given under heaven— alone could men be saved. We teach without the slightest modification or reserve, that Christ's obedience and death, sealed and confirmed by His resurrection, constitute the one and only ground of the sinner's salvation. That there is salvation in no other. That no man is justified by the deeds of the law, but by faith in Christ. Christ represented His Church in His legal obedience and expiatory sacrifice. He kept the precept and endured the penalty of the law in our stead; was tried, condemned, and crucified for us. "He was delivered for our offenses, and rose again for our justification" Believe this truth—or rather, believe not so much in a truth as in Him who is the Truth; not so much in the official work as in the personal dignity, grace, and love of Christ—and you are saved. Patrick Hamilton, one of the first Protestant martyrs of Scotland, thus clearly and forcibly puts this great doctrine :—\" No man is justified by the deeds of the law, but by the faith of Christ. He was punished for thee, and therefore thou shalt not be punished. I do not say we ought to do no good deeds, but I say we should do no good works to the intent to obtain remission of sins and the inheritance of heaven; for God saith, 'Thy sins are forgiven for my Son's sake, and thou shalt have the inheritance of heaven for my Son's sake.' I condemn not good deeds, but I condemn trust in our works; for all the works wherein a man putteth any confidence are by his confidence poisoned and become evil; wherefore, thou must do good works, and beware of doing them with the view to deserve any good for them. In a Christian man's life, and in order of doctrine, there is the law, repentance, hope, charity, and the deeds of charity; yet in the act of justification there is nothing else in man that hath part or place but faith alone, apprehending the object, which is Christ crucified, in whom is all the worthiness and fullness of our saU vation."

Paul preached Christ, too, as the Savior of poor, lost sinners. Oh, what a grand feature- was this in His ministry—Christ the Savior of sinners! God forbid that our preaching should be contradictory and dissonant in its utterance and in its melody to that glorious key-note of the apostle— "This is a Faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners." When we preach Christ truly, we preach Him as the Savior who died for the ungodly—as the Savior, not of saints, not of the worthy, not of those who imagine themselves fit to be saved— but as the Savior of sinners—lost, heartbroken, self-condemned, sin-loathing, selfabhorring sinners—sinners who have become acquainted with the plague of their own hearts, who place their mouths in the dust, and cry, " God be merciful to me, a sinner" —sinners who have not a hope but that which springs from the finished work of Christ. Oh, if I did not believe that Jesus Christ came to save the worst of sinners, will never cast out the very chief who comes in penitence at His feet, and takes hold of His blessed cross, resting on his finished work, I would never more preach.

There may be not a few who scan this page who have deemed themselves beyond the pale of salvation. You have thought yourself a great sinner. Your transgressions of a deep and dark dye. You have so sinned against conviction, have so stifled emotion, have so endeavored to conquer spiritual feelings. You have so sinned against light, knowledge, and feeling— against a father's pleadings—a mother's prayers—a minister's warnings—the providential dealings of God in your history. You seem as if you had placed yourself beyond the reach of Christ's arm, and that for you there was no salvation. But listen to our wondrous story. Christ, the Savior of the lost, whose glory, delight, love it is to exercise His divine power and the freeness and the fullness of His grace in saving sinners to the uttermost, I present to you. Yes! that same Jesus who found Saul of Tarsus, who transferred the dying malefactor from the cross on earth to His bosom in glory, washed from every crime in His most precious blood, is willing, is able to save you. You may have been a persecutor of the saints; you may have been a bold blasphemer, a scorning skeptic; you may have herded with the unclean, may have sold yourself to Satan; nevertheless, dost thou feel a wish to be saved? Is there stirring within your heart a desire to be saved? Do you long to be a child of God, a disciple of Jesus? Then, my brother—for such thou art—if thou comest to fthis precious Christ, this glorious Savior, He will not reject thee nor cast thee out. Oh, if the angels in heaven' were now to speak, they could not make to you an announcement truer, sweeter, more precious than this that, if thou wilt throw thyself at the foot of the cross, and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ—if thou wilt now wash in the fountain of His blood, the Lord Jesus Christ will graciously accept thee, freely pardon thee, and for ever glorify thee in heaven.

Paul preached Christ in His fullness. It is impossible to present the Lord Jesus in His proper light apart from this. The feeblest, gentlest unfolding of the Divine character expresses in some degree the grace, the love, the blessing it contains. This is a great encouragement to those preachers who are conscious of the much infirmity with which they attempt to uplift the Savior. Let them remember that however humble their gifts, narrow their acquirements, and limited the range of their influence, it is impossible that they can exhibit the Lord Jesus without some fragrance breathing from His name, and some blessing distilling from His grace, for which some sin-distressed soul, or some tried and tempted believer shall thank ,them in heaven. But what a blessed preaching this of Christ! All fullness of guilt-pardoning and of sin-subduing grace; all fullness of wisdom and strength; all fullness of tenderness and love; all fullness of salvation and glory, free, redundant, inexhaustible fullness. To bring you in some measure into the experience of this truth, the Lord has, perhaps, been instructing you more deeply in the experience of your own emptiness. The two lessons are taught in the same school, and by the same Teacher; the two blessings flow through the same channel, and to the same recipient. He who sees his own poverty sees something of Christ's wealth; who feels his own emptiness realizes in some measure Christ's fullness. Thus the Lord impoverishes, that He might enrich us; weakens, that He might strengthen us; casts us down, that faith may look for uplifting. "When men are cast down, then thou shalt say, There is lifting up" (Job 22:29.) Repair, then, to the Saviours fullness with frequent, unhesitating, and unlimited application. That fullness is not for Himself, nor for angels, but for us, empty, needy, sinners. "It pleased the Father that in Him should all fullness dwell" for the Church, whose salvation was confided to His hands. And you cannot chant His praise more sweetly, nor weave a garland more worthy of His brow, than when in faith you bring your guilt to the cleansing virtue of His blood, your corruption to the conquering power of His grace, and your exhausted resources to the fullness from which the saints on earth and the saints in heaven have for ages drawn, and which yet has not sunk one hair'sbreadth. Open thine eyes, thou weeping Rachel, and behold the fountain of all blessing in Jesus flowing at thy side. "All my springs are in Thee."

To preach Christ is to present Him in the tender compassion of His fieart. To keep back or to dilute this truth is to divide Christ, to veil one-half His nature* We want the two natures of our Lord, and cannot dispense with either—the one, His divine nature, to impart efficacy to His atonement; the other, the human nature, to make the atonement His deity thus stamps with infinite worth. But it is of His sympathizing nature as man I now speak. How precious is this to the heart in seasons of suffering of mind, body, or estate! Adversity proves a costly pearl when it brings us into the experience, compassion, and sympathy of the Savior. Sorrow makes us better acquainted with our common humanity. We know more of man, feel more for man, and do more for man when God brings us into affliction. If this is true of our fellow-men, how much more so of Christ! There are perfections of His being we cannot properly see, excellences in His character we do not distinctly discern, cloisters in His heart we do not fully penetrate, truths in His gospel we cannot clearly understand, until trial'in some shape or other impels us to more individual and actual fellowship with Him. Accept, then, the discipline of your Heavenly Father, as designed to make you better acquainted with His blessed Son. Blend the brightest thoughts of Jesus with the gloomiest thoughts of your present grief. He knows it, has sent it, comes with it, will sustain you beneath it, and will bring you through it, as He has promised. "J will bring the third part through the fire, and will refine them as silver <^s refined, and will try them as gold is tried: they shall call on my name, and I will hear them: J will say, It is my people; and they shall say, The Lord is my God''' Oh, to know more of Christ, to hold with Him more confidential communion, to insinuate ourselves, as it were, more closely within His heart, it were worth all the discipline of trial we ever experienced. The measure of our true knowledge of God's truth is the measure of our personal experience; and the measure of our experience is the sanctified result of God's discipline. "Blessed is the man whom thou chasteneth, O Lord, and teacheth him out of thy law."

We preach Christ in the glory of His second coming. As this great and august event approaches—and the time of the end speedeth on—it is of solemn moment that the trumpet of the Lord's ministers give no hesitating and uncertain sound touching this great and glorious truth. Paul, though living so remote from the time of the second advent of Christ, constantly made it the theme of his ministry and the burden of his epistles. "1 beseech you by the coming of the Lord" was his frequent and impressive argument when enforcing holiness, or urging us to entire surrender to God. Yes, the Lord is at hand! He is coming to gather in His ancient people Israel, to confront the Antichrist yet to be revealed and then to be overthrown, to punish with judgments the idolatrous nations of the earth, and finally to judge the ungodly, and to reign over and among His people gloriously. He will come as a thief in the night; blessed are they who shall then be counted worthy to stand before the Son of man!

My reader, let me devote the brief space yet left me in pressing home upon your attention the personal question—Have you been arrested by Christl Has He "apprehended " you by His Spirit in the midst of your hatred and rebellion, your pleasure and worldliness? In other words, are you truly converted by His grace 1 Has Jesus called you, not with the audible voice that arrested Saul, but by the still, small voice of His Spirit in your heart? Oh to hear Him say, "I am Jesns! whom you have long disbelieved and despised; / am Jesus, whose grace you have scorned, whose salvation you have neglected, with whose blood you have trifled. / am Jesus who, notwithstanding all, is able and willing to save you to the uttermost." The Lord of His grace grant that you may hear that voice speaking mercy, and saying, " Come unto me," ere you hear it speaking to you in judgment, and saying, "Depart from me!"

Let me close these pages as I commenced them. If, my reader, you are a disbeliever in the divine authority of the Bible, a rejecter of the truth of Christianity, let me implore you candidly and prayerfully to weigh the evidence of the Christian faith afforded by the remarkable conversion of Saul of Tarsus. And the Lord grant that by the Spirit, it may convince you, as it carried conviction to the skeptical mind of Lord Lyttleton, that God's Word Is True! and thus may you henceforth become a disciple and follower of the Savior now, and a jewel in His crown hereafter. For this let us pray.

O God, who through the preaching of the blessed apostle Paul, hast caused the light of the gospel to shine throughout the world; grant, we beseech Thee, that we, having his Wonderful Conversion in remembrance, may shew forth our thankfulness unto Thee for the same, by following the holy doctrine which he taught, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

"BRING HIM UNTO ME;"

OR,

HELP AND SALVATION ONLY IN CHRIST.

"Then Jesus answered, and said, Bring him hither unto me."—Matt. xvii. I J.

The narrative to which these words refer is replete with touches of the deepest interest. Our Lord had just been transfigured. Descending from the mount, His robes streaming with the brightness, and His countenance radiant with the glory of that wonderful scene, He finds Himself in the midst of an anxious and excited group. The occasion quickly transpired. The central object 9. 257 1

of that multitude, upon whom its chief and most touching interest gathered, was a distressed and suppliant parent, accompanied by an afflicted, demoniacally-possessed child, whom he had brought to the disciples of Christ for their healing. But the case had baffled their skill for, "they could not cure him." Seeing the Savior approach, the father of the child directed his appeal to Him. "Lord, have mercy upon my son: for he is lunatic, and sore vexed; for qfttimes he falleth into the water. And I brought him to thy disciples and they could not cure him." And then followed Christ's gracious response, " Bring him hither to me. And Jesus rebuked the devil, and he departed out of him: and the child was cured from that very hour." The whole narrative, viewed in its gospel significance, is richly instructive. The miracles of our Lord were a marvelous blending of human compassion and divine instruction. They were never intended to terminate in mere bodily or mental relief; but were designed also to shadow forth His higher mission to man and His nobler work for man—physical illustrations of spiritual life. In this light let us view the present one, and glean the precious truths it conveys. What are some of the chief spiritual points it illustrates 1

The disease of this child reminds us of a peculiar and affecting feature of our moral condition—we are by nature demoniacally possessed. Will any deem this view of our spiritual condition harsh and overdrawn 1 Are they, with all their reasoning faculties in full health and play, disposed skeptically to question its truth, and indignantly to repel the charge? Pause a moment, my reader, and ponder these striking and solemn words of Scripture—" The heart of the sons of men is full of evil, and Madness is in their heart while they live." This awful picture is not that of a class, or of a nation merely, but of every son and daughter of Adam on the face of the globe: and, if still unconverted by the grace of God, it finds its counterpart, my reader, in you: were you not the subject of this moral insanity, could you, an heir of eternity, live as you do but as an heir of time 1 Look at your life. A rational being, yet living irrationally. A responsible being, yet ignoring your obligation to God. An accountable being, yet with not one serious thought of your individual accountability. A sinful being, yet with no knowledge of the Savior of sinners. A mortal being, yet living as though you were never to die. An immortal being, yet never pausing to inquire, "Where shall I spend my eternity?" Living amid dreams, fancies, and hallucinations; playing with straws, blowing bubbles, pursuing shadows, and so sporting each moment upon the precipice of endless woe! Is this an evidence of sanity ?—this a mark oi a life of a spiritually renewed and sound intellect 1 Alas! what does it prove but that the demon of moral insanity, the most terrific and fatal, sits gloomily and supremely enthroned upon your unregenerate heart, and will continue so enthroned until the Savior graciously ejects him thence, and brings you to His feet clothed and in your right mind. By what avenue can we approach you with words of warning and entreaty1 How awaken you to a conviction and sense of your present danger and future condition? Alas, as we cannot by our own efforts reason with the insane, neither can we by our own unaid ed powers convince you of the depravity of your heart, of the recklessness of your life, and of the terribleness of the doom that awaits you when the shadows and dreams of your present existence give way to the stern, dread realities of the life that is to come. And yet, morally insane and infatuated though you are, Sod deals with you as an intelligent, sinful, responsible being, and holds you firm within the grasp of His almighty power. Listen to His gracious overture. "Come now and let us Reason together, saith the Lord: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool." God in these words recognizes your intelligence, sinfulness, moral responsibility and obligation. Never will He admit your utter impotence to help and save yourself, for a moment release you from the solemn obligation you are under to love, serve, and obey Him. You tell me that you cannot repent—I answer, it is because you will not repent. You say you cannot believe in Jesus—it is because you will not believe in Jesus. You complain that you cannot come to Christ—it is because you will not come to Christ. Your sin is, not that you cannot, but that you will not be saved. Our blessed Lord clearly puts it in this light. "Ye Will Not come unto me, that ye might have life" Most true is it that you cannot, that you have no moral power, but it is the rebellion of your will that constitutes your highest crime before God. Oh that sinful, stubborn will! It is the depraved, perverse rudder of the soul, guiding all its movements, controlling all its actions, and often steering it amid the rocks, the quicksands and breakers of present destruction and eternal woe. But when Jesus comes with His converting Spirit, He first conquers the will. He grasps this rudder, brings under the power of His grace this allgoverning principle of man's soul; subdues it, renews it, gives it a new bend and holy bias, and thus, having made the soul "willing in the day of His power" gently and persuasively draws it to Himself. Lord, subdue my sinful will! Bend and break the iron sinews of its rebellion, bow it to Thy control, lay it low beneath the Cross, and make it willing to love and serve and follow Thee! This done, the demon of our moral madness quits the soul and leaves the throne for Jesus!

We reach another feature of this narrative —the means of cure sought by the distressed parent. "/ brought him to Thy disciples." Supposing them to be Christ's representatives, his first resort was to man. There is not a more solemnly instructive feature of the narrative than this. What a rebuke it administers, what a truth it teaches! There is not a stronger feeling of our nature than that which this parent's conduct illustrates—the tendency of our hearts in times of trouble and need to repair first to human help. "/ brought him to Thy disciples." What significant words! They meet-one of the most popular and prevalent errors of the present day—the priestly element, supposed by many to be lodged in human hands. Underlying the whole system of Ritualism and Sacramentarianism is this principle — the supposed existence of priestly authority and power. Divest the system of this principle, destroy this its central element, and the whole thing crumbles to ruin. Sad, oh how sad, to see men calling themselves Christ's ministers and representatives, vaulting into His throne and usurping His authority and power. The only priest over the Church of God is Christ; and the only priesthood in the Church is the Church of God itself. "Ye are a royal Priesthood." "Ye"—that is, all believers in Christ Jesus; all who are washed in His blood and clothed with His righteousness, who join tl^e one song of His one priesthood —" Who hath made us kings and Priests unto God." That the great Head of the Church has appointed and ordained an order of men to preach His word, and to administer His institutions, we recognize with profound gratitude. The Christian ministry is of Christ, and we gratefully recognize, reverently esteem, and thankfully accept it; giving to Him all the glory and praise of the power and blessing of which it is the channel to His Church. Beyond this we dare not go! Christ is the one and only sacrificing Priest in the Church. He alone has merit to atone for sin, and He alone has authority and power to pardon it. He has delegated this priestly power to no creature, man or angel. All who claim it are profane usurpers, and shall be found deceivers and liars in the great day when every one of us shall give account of himself unto God.

This conducts us to another equally striking feature of the narrative, the inability of the disciples to meet the case. "I brought him to Thy disciples, and they could not cure him" What a fatal blow do these words hurl at all the vain pretensions of man to priestly authority and power! What! were these the first and inspired disciples and apostles of Christ, the earliest preachers of His gospel, and administrators of His ordinances, and builders of His Church, powerless to help 1 Then whoshall dare claim in thisdayapriestly prerogative and power which even the earliest, inspired and holy apostles of the Church never claimed. But what a lesson is here taught us, my reader, even us who regard the figment of priestly power in man but a base delusion and a lie! Are we not often betrayed into a like fatal error of going first to human power for help and salvation? We i go to Christ's ministers, thinking they can relieve us of the burden of sin; we repair to the Lord's servants supposing they can administer comfort iti grief, counsel in perplexity, and sympathy in trial; but, alas! we find them often powerless to help. "Lord, I brought my sin, my grief, my wound, my perplexity, my burden, to Thy ministers, and they could not help me." Thus the Lord empties us of our heart's idolatry, teaches us the weakness of human power, withers the arm and dries up the spring of creature help—that He might but draw us to Himself. We trust either in our own selves or in others, until God writes upon our human dependence the sentence of death. He has written that solemn sentence already within ourselves, that we might not trust in our own righteousness for salvation, and He writes it daily upon all our human props and creature resources, that we might learn to put our trust alone in Jesus. How instructive and solemn the teaching of God's word on this subject of human trust. "Thus saith the Lord, Cursed is the man that trusteth in man, and maketh flesh his arm, and whose heart departeth from the Lord. For he shall be like the heath in the desert, and shall not see when goad cometh; but shall inhabit the parchedplaces in t?ie wilderness, in a salt land, and not inhabited" (Jeremiah 17:5, 6.) Equally pointed is the language of the apostle—" We had the sentence of death in ourselves, that we should not trust in ourselves, but in God, which raiseth the dead.'" Accept, as sent in love to you, child of God, the painful and humiliating discipline of thy heavenly Father, which has destroyed all thy creature confidences, broken thy beautiful vessels and blasted thy pleasant gourds of created good. Oh, never did Jesus evince His love to thee as now! Were not His desire towards thee, were He not jealous of thy love, and did He not wish to make thee supremely happy by bringing thee to seek and find that happiness supremely in Himself, then would He have suffered thee to follow after thy lovers, giving thee up to the creature idolatry of thy too fond and clinging heart.

But we reach the most interesting and instructive part of the narrative—that portion which will supply the subject of our remaining thoughts. "Then Jesus answered and

Said,…BRING HIM HITHER TO ME." It

was at this critical juncture, when human power failed, that our Lord steps in and concentrates the entire interest of the scene upon Himself. And what is the spirit He manifests and the language which He employs 1 Is He offended with the distressed parent, and does He express that offense in words of rebuke? Are His feelings wounded) and is His language harsh, because His disciples had received precedence of Himself, and that He had only been applied to as a last resource because all other means had failed 1 Ah, no! there was no sin in Jesus, and consequently no pride. How differently we would have felt, and how opposite to this we should have acted! Standing upon our self-respect, which is often nothing less than self-idolatry, and resenting the wound which the slight had inflicted, we should in all probability have looked coldly upon the case, and either have accepted it with reluctance, or have dismissed it with disdain. How often has this infirmity of our nature exhibited itself under real or supposed slight. We could ill brook to be supplanted by another, or to be dismissed to the cold shade

of neglect. That we were not given precedence, our judgment first consulted, and our aid first sought, has stung our pride and wounded our sensibilities, and has rendered us peevish, haughty, and morose. But not thus was it with our adorable Lord. In Him was no sin, and consequently no infirmity. His transcendant trait was humility. He made Himself of no reputation. He condescended to become a servant, yea, the servant of servants. Self negation, like a thread of gold, was interwoven with the web of His whole life, from the moment that He stooped to take our nature in the stable until that in which he bore it with Him to glory. Oh, to be assimilated to Him in this grace of humility! In nothing will our resemblance be more perfect. Our Lord, when He clustered His disciples at His feet on the mount, did not in those memorable instructions say, "Learn of me, for I am wise" or, " Learn of me, for I am powerful"—no! but, " Learn of me, for / am meek and lowly in heart" His grace of humility was made to eclipse His gift of intellect; the mind was to crown the heart; and passing by the "spirit of wisdom and of understanding, the spirit of counsel and of might" which He possessed was without measure, He turned their eye upon His humility of heart, and bade them learn, admire, and imitate.

Never, perhaps, in the life of our Lord did this lowly trait appear in a lovelier light than now. Not a look of anger darted from his eye, not a word of rebuke breathed from His lips. And thus Jesus demeans Himself towards us. How seldom do we repair to Him with our burdens, perplexities, and wants until we have tried any and every other resource. Such finite beings are we, so earthly and carnal, that if we can but attach ourselves in seasons of conscious sorrow and want and weakness to that which is sensible, however frail the object and feeble the hold, we would rather do so than trust in the invisible God; we bear our burden first to the disciple of Jesus rather than directly and immediately to Jesus Himself. But, finding no help here, we then gladly turn to Christ. And what do we find Him to be? What has our experience of Him been when all human power failed, and all creature resources dried, and men or angels could not help us? Just what this poor, distressed parent found Him to be—a present and willing and all-powerful help. Now the words which Jesus addressed to this afflicted suppliant in the hour of his need and extremity He equally addresses to us—" Bring Him Hither* Unto Me." It is Christ's invitation to all needy souls, whatever that need may be—it is His invitation, my reader, to you. What a great and precious privilege is this 1 It would be impossible to over-estimate its worth, or to give full expression to its blessedness. Indeed it is the highest as the sweetest privilege of the believer to bring all to Jesus—to come, though He be a last resource—to come, though filled with shame and penitence at not having come to Him before, at not having come to Him at first, yet to come bearing the burden, unvailing the grief, disclosing the want to Jesus. Let us endeavor to strengthen and encourage you, my reader, in this holy and helpful privilege of bringing to Jesus what, in all probability, you have brought in vain to man. Imagine the Lord addressing these words to you, "Bring it hither unto me." The invitation, perhaps, finds you in deep need, in overwhelming distress, at a critical crisis of your history. Human power has proved helpless, friends faithless, plans futile, and you are at your wits' end. In your mosient of disappointment and despair, Jesus meets you with the gracious words, " Bring it hither unto me" And now your spirit revives, your heart bounds, at the words, and you exclaim, "Behold, Lord, I come." Let us in two or three particulars amplify these words.

In the first place, Jesus in effect says,

"Bring your sins hither unto me." He

begins with sin, because it is the cause of all

burdens, and the heaviest burden of all.

Your general experience testifies to this.

Your sins are to you a grievous burden, and

you sigh and cry for deliverance. You have,

perhaps, taken your sins to the minister, or

you have disclosed them to a Christian

friend. It may be you have sought relief

for their oppressiveness in the gaieties of

the world, in the excitement of business, or

in the rigid but vain observance of religious

duties. But, after all, you find yourself in the same dilemma with the afflicted parent, "I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not heal him" Listen to the Savior's gentle, unreproving words, "Bring your sins and guilt hither unto me." To whom more fitly, more hopefully, can you bring that heavy, crushing burden, but to Jesus? He is the only being in the universe who has to do judicially, or who can- do remedially, with sin. Sin is a moral disease for which there is but one remedy, and but one physician. That remedy abjured, and that physician rejected, the sinner must accept, as the appalling, the inevitable result, the pangs and horrors of the second and eternal death. But Jesus has to do personally and officially with sin. His mission to our fallen world was for its overthrow and annihilation. He made His advent to the empire of sin— entered the lazar-house of sin—and took upon Himself, by imputation, the guilt, the curse, and the condemnation of sin. His sufferings on the cross were sin-vicarious, His death was sin-atoning, His blood is sin-cleansing, His last and latest breath was a supplication for the forgiveness of sin—even the sin of His slayers. In the language of the prophet, "He was wounded for our transgressions, He was bruised for our iniquities." In the language of the evangelist, " This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them." In the language of the apostles, "Christ died for our sins." All these witnesses unite in testifying to the great truth of the Bible that, "Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners." Poor sin-distressed soul, will not this suffice? Take not your sin-burdened heart to minister, nor to Saints, nor to sacraments, nor to religious duties, nor to pious services—all, all these, are vain helpers, having no power to lighten thee of the burden, or to efface the blot of one single sin. In this infinitely momentous matter, happily for you, you must look up solely and exclusively to Jesus. God's plan, of saving you cuts you off from all other resources, dissevers you from all other saviors, and throws you upon Jesus alone. Bring your sins, then, straight and at once to Him. Let there be not a moment's hesitation. Bring them, though they be as high as the pyramids, and red like crimson, and countless as the sands of the sea-shore. Bring then thy sins before conversion, thy sins after conversion, thy sins contravening conversion; • be they sins of youth, or sins of manhood, or sins of age, sins against knowledge, and sins against conviction, bring them all to Jesus. Yea, from whatever standpoint you view, and in whatever light you contemplate your sin and guilt, only bring it in confession, penitence, and faith to Jesus, and you shall learn from blessed experience that His blood cleanseth from all sin.

Jesus says, "Bring your convictions to Me." There is no state of mind which keeps the inquiring soul, to use the expressive language of the prophet, so "long in the place of the breaking forth of children" * as a conviction of sin. How many there are who stop here for months, and even for years, knowing nothing of the peace, and joy, and hope of the new birth! They seem to make no real spiritual progress. There is the infant's feeble and faint sob of life— and that is all. There is nothing of the

* Hosea 13:13. vigor of youth, still less of the strength of the father, in their religion. They are not fully born again. And why this 1 Because they are resting in their convictions, living on their convictions, content to remain in this gloomy and doubtful position, rather than, by a simple, single act of faith, plunge into the fathomless, boundless sea of the» Savior's grace, and there for ever lose them. But listen to the overture of Jesus. When He commands, "Bring it unto Me," and when He invites the weary and heavy laden to come to Him for rest, He includes you in the number. Leanness of soul must be the result of every attempt to subsist upon the starving aliment of conviction, while the gospel unvails to you the finest wheat of God's granary, and honey flowing from the rock. What, then, is your remedy? Simply this: instead of taking your convictions to duties, and to ordinances, and to ministers, to take them to Christ. There is no healing of sin's wound, no lighting of sin's burden, no removal of sin's guilt, no weakening of sin's power, but as Christ deals with it. And since "His name is called Jesus, because

He shall save His people from their sins," no turpitude of guilt, however great—no number of sins, however countless—no depth of conviction, however profound—-can bar the soul from His redeeming love and pardoning grace.

Jesus says, "Bring your desire for conversion to Me." With how many individuals conversion, in its incipient stage, amounts to a desire only. And yet this day of small things in grace is not to be despised. The writer well remembers when it was his experience. Solemnly conscious of living in an unconverted state, and well instructed in the truth that conversion was essential to the enjoyment of heaven, his heart ardently longed and earnestly prayed for the priceless blessing. Remembering this, the earliest stage of his Christianity, he is prepared to offer sympathy and aid to all whom the experience of this work of grace is but a sincere desire. And yet that desire is the work of God's Spirit, is the germ, the dawn, the first pulse of spiritual life. Welcome it, cherish it, bring it to Jesus, "from whom all holy desires" as "all good counsels, and just vrorks, do proceed." And He who " quencheth not the smoking flax, nor breaketh the bruised reed," will so strengthen and increase that holy desire that it shall ripen into a full state of grace here, and into a perfect state of glory hereafter.

Jesus says, "Bring your sorrows to Me? Never did the soul find so powerful a magnet, attracting to itself affliction in every form, and sorrow in every shade, as Jesus. If sympathy is the expression of compassion nurtured and trained in a like school, then there is to be found in the wide universe of being no sympathy like Christ's. Standing as in the center of a world of woe, He invites every daughter of sorrow, of sin, of grief to repair to Him for succor, sympathy, and healing. As the High Priest of His Church —for whom alone He suffered, and wept, and sobbed—He unvails a bosom capacious enough and loving enough, and sympathizing enough, to embrace every sufferer, and to pillow every grief. Accept, then, His compassionate invitation, and bring your grief to the soothing, sustaining, sanctifying grace of His heart .

Jesus says, "Bring your wants to Me." We are necessitous beings. Sin has created countless wants; the absence of God from the soul, fathomless yearnings. Nor is there a being or a thing in the wide universe of life and wealth that can meet a solitary one. Jesus only can. With all the affluence of the universe which He made at His disposal, is there a single need you have which He is not able to supply 1 Bring, then, your wants to Him. Are they temporal i "The earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof." Are they spiritual i He is "full of grace and truth." Thus, possessing all earthly good, and furnished with all that is heavenly—

"What want shall not our God supply,

From His redundant stores?

What streams of mercy from on high,

An Arm Almighty pours?

"From Christ, the ever-living spring,

These ample blessings flow;

Prepare my lips liis name to sing,

Whose heart has loved us so."

Jesus says—" Bring your temptations to me." To whom more appropriate can the tempted children of God repair with their varied assaults—the temptations of Satan, of the world, of their own hearts—as to Christ the tempted One? "For in that He himself hath suffered, being tempted, He is able to succor them that are tempted" Truly, our spiritual Joseph, of whom it may truly be said, "The archer sorely grieved Him, and shot at Him, and hated Him," is prepared to quench each flaming arrow hurled at His dear people, to extract the dart, and heal, with balsam flowing from His own pierced side, the wounds those darts have inflicted.

Jesus says—" Bring your sick and suffering ones to me." When He dwelt upon earth He was earth's Great Physician. From all the cities and provinces, the towns and villages, they brought to Him their sick folk, and He healed them all. Not less humane or skilful is He now. To whom can we bring the sick ones we love, but are powerless to help, with such prospect of cure as to Jesus'? Man's incurables are Christ's curables. He has power to control mental aberration, saying to the surging billows of the mind, "Peace, be still." He can arrest bodily sickness, quiet the trembling nerve, cool the feverish pulse, assuage the torturing pang, and cause the severest disease to fly at His all-controlling command. Bring, then, your afflicted, drooping one to Christ, and the prayer of faith offered to, and exercised in, Him shall save the sick.

To whom more appropriately can we take the skeptical religious doubts which distress us than to Jesus 1 Your faith in the truth of the Bible, in part or as a whole, has, perhaps, been disturbed by popular writers. You have come to question the veracity of the Mosaic history, or you have been led to doubt the integrity of this prophecy, or the accuracy of that gospel, or the inspiration of the other epistle, until your mind, having lost its anchorage, is driven out amid the broken seas and bleak rocks of doubt, uncertainty, and despair. And yet you are not satisfied. You have not entirely lost your faith in the integrity of the Bible, nor your filial hold upon God. You have, probably, confided your state of mind to man. You have read this book, and have consulted that authority, and have made known your case to that minister, yearning to find a proper solution to your distressing doubts, and a firm anchorage ground for your tossed and bewildered spirit. But all has proved in vain. You have borne your doubts and difficulties and distress to Christ's disciples, and they have proved powerless to help you. This little book comes to echo the loving, gracious invitation of Jesus to you, "Bring it unto me." To you as truly and as personally He addresses these words as originally He did to the afflicted parent. The explanations of men have failed you, human teaching has proved powerless. Now try the experiment, as a last resource, and take your skeptical doubts to Jesus, and beseech Him to solve them, to neutralize them, to dislodge them, supplanting them by a simple, child-like, un-» questioning faith in Himself as "thetruth." The moment your believing heart receives into it the Lord Jesus Christ, that moment all your doubts are gone. Your long-existing and agonizing inquiry, " What is truth t' is now met, fully, instantly answered, as that question only can be answered, by Him who has sublimely declared, "I Am The Truth." In bringing your doubts touching the truth of revelation to Jesus, you have complied with His command, you have yielded assent to His invitation. And in doing this you have obeyed God's command, who, respecting His beloved Son, uttered those significant words, "Hear ye Him." And in thus doing God's will, you have placed yourself in the only true position to know the truth of His word, "If any man',' says our Lord, "will do His will, he shall know of the doctrine whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." Oh bring, then, your agitated mind to Christ! Discover to Him your mental difficulties, your religious doubts, your tortured feelings. With one word He can dislodge the demon of doubt from your mind, and all will be firm faith, full assurance, and heavenly peace.

Equally does He ask you to bring to Him your spiritual fears. "Fearful heart," is one of the most common and expressive titles of the Lord's people: "Say unto them that are of a fearful heart." This will account for the fact, that no words oftener fell from the lips of Jesus when on earth, than those soothing, precious ones, "Fear not." To whom, then, can you better repair with those distressing fears touching your conversion, your adoption, your salvation, your growth in grace, than to Jesus? Oh, why these fears, we may ask, when He is so near to soothe and allay them 1 See the troubled waves receiving upon their foaming crests the footsteps of their Creator!—" God manifest in the flesh"—bearing Him to His fearful, foundering disciples, with the words rising higher than the storm, "Be not afraid, it is I." Essentially immutable, He is just the same, high upon His throne in glory, that He was when thus He stepped from billow to billow to the comfort and the rescue of His affrighted disciples on the sea. You have unveiled your fears to His ministers and to His saints, and still they torment, and still they distress you. He says, "Bring them hither to me." He will not repel your doubts nor chide your fears> but, as of old, He will tenderly meet them, gently deal with them, entirely remove them, and calm your perturbed and trembling heart upon the love and repose of His own.

This simple living upon Christ will be found to be a very sanctifying life. Every errand that takes you to Him brings you in personal contact with perfect holiness; and you cannot return from the interview, though it were but of five minutes' duration, without the perfumed garment and the reflected glory. Men will take knowledge of you that you have been with Jesus.

Equally will this habit of bringing all our circumstances to Jesus tend to increase His endearment to your soul. He will grow upon our love. It is an instinct of our nature that the more we are with an object that we admire and love, the more that object entwines with our being. A growing acquaintance with its mental and moral excellence increases and deepens the affections, until we come to feel that intercourse seems essential to our existence, and that separation is almost its extinction. Thus the more we are with Christ the more we know Him, and the more we know the more we admire Him; aud the more we admire, the more we love Him; and to love Him is to walk obediently to His sweet and holy commands. Oh, to love Him more!

Do not be ashamed to take your case to Jesus, even though you have gone first to human help. He won't be ashamed of you) if you are not ashamed of Him. It is His glory to step in and achieve a work and bestow a blessing when all human power and resources have failed. He loves to unlock His treasury when man's is utterly exhausted. Go, then, fall at His feet, and tell Him you have tried all other help, and all has failed you, and at last you come to Him.

In a word, Jesus bids you bring all to Him—your depression and despondency, the sadness of your heart, and the anxieties of your mind, the wounds of friends and the calumnies of foes, the chidings of God and the assaults of man; your fear of death and your dread of judgment, all, all He invites to the asylum of His love, to the arm of His power, and to the fullness of His sufficiency. No word of upbraiding will fall from His lip, no look of anger dart from His eye. Well will He remember how you leant upon the arm of human power and it failed you, how you reposed upon the heart of human love and it disappointed you, how you resorted to human skill and it could not cure. And now, in the deepest, tenderest sympathy with your blighted hopes, your wounded affections, your disappointed plans, He would fain uplift the flower crushed and trampled in the dust, and, bathing it in the dew of His grace, place it in,His sheltering bosom, to freshen and to bloom for ever beneath the warm sunshine of His smile.

Toiling in the midnight storm,

Toss'd on sorrow's surging sea,

Weary, terrified, forlorn,

Jesus bids you, "Come to Me !*'

Drifting on the soundless deep,

Wave on wave rolls over thee;

Shadows coldly round you creep;

Jesus bids you, "Come to Me."

Clustering griefs becloud thy way,

Earthly joys and comforts flee.

Oh, to be thy light, thy stay,

Jesus bids you, "Come to Me."

Jesus, take the vacant helm;

Guide me o'er this troubled sea 5

Ere the tide my soul o'erwhelm,

Jesus, Savior, come to me.

Let me hear Thy cheering voice,

E'en though it in chiding be;

Bid my fearful heart rejoice,

Jesus, Savior, come to me!

Thou canst make the tempest cease ,

At Thy word the shadows flee;

Thou alone canst give me peace;

Jesus, Savior, come to me!

E'en upon the billow's crest,

Sweetly tranquil I can be,

If near Thy dear heart I rest,

Jesus, Savior, come to me I

r

