LibRARY OF PRINCETON 

THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY 

852/130 .R6a9 

Types of preachers in the Nevs 

Testament, 

TYPES OF PREACHERS 
IN THE NEW TESTAMENT 

A. T. ROBERTSON, m.a., d.d., ll.d., litt.d. 

BY PROFESSOR A. T. ROBERTSON 

Types of Preachers in the New Testament. 

Paul the Interpreter of Christ. 

A Harmony of the Gospels for Students of the Life 
OF Christ. 

Practical and Social Aspects of Christianity (Exposi- 
tion of James). 

A Short Grammar of the Greek New Testament. 
Fifth Edition. Translation into Dutch, French, Ger- 
man, Italian. 

A Grammar of the Greek New Testament in the 
Light of Historical Research. Third Edition Re- 
vised. 

John the Loyal: A Sketch of John the Baptist. 

Epochs in the Life of Jesus. 

Epochs in the Life of Paul. 

The Pharisees and Jesus. The Stone Princeton Lectures 
for 1916. 

Luke the Historian in the Light of Research. 

The Student's Chronological New Testament. 

The Glory of the Ministry. 

The Divinity of Christ in the Gospel of John. 

Paul's Joy in* Christ: Studies in Philippians. 

Making Good in the Ministry: A Sketch of John 
Mark. 

The New Citizenship. 

Commentary on Matthew: The Bible for Home and 
School. 

Studies in Mark's Gospel. 

Studies in the New Testament. 

Keywords in the Teaching of Jesus. 

Life and Letters of John A. Broadus. 

The Teaching of Jesus Concerning God the Father. 

Syllabus for New Testament Study. 

TYPES OF PREACHERS IN 
THE NEW TESTAMENT 

/ BY 

A. T. ROBERTSON, m.a., d.d., ll.d., litt.d. 

PROFESSOR OF NEW TESTAMENT INTERPRETATION, 

SOITTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY, 

LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY 

^^<\' 

*A Good Minister of Christ Jesus^ 

NEW ^^aW" YORK 
GEORGE H. DORAN COMPANY 

COPYRIGHT, 1933, 
BY GEORGE H. DORAN COMPANY 

TYPES OF PREACHERS IN THE NEW TESTAMENT. I. 

PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

TO MY SISTER 

JOSEPHINE ROBERTSON 

PREFACE 

These studies of some of the minor characters in 
the New Testament story illustrate the wealth of 
material in early Christianity. Human nature has 
infinite variety and perpetual interest. The author 
has already written books about the Baptist, Jesus, 
Paul, Luke, the Apostle John, Mark, and has one on 
the stocks about Simon Peter. So these are not in- 
eluded in this volume. The problem of the ministry is 
always a vital one and there are periods of pessimism 
about the ministerial supply. But God can use men 
of wide divergence in gifts and is not bound by any 
rules save those of life and love. The Word of God 
is not bound by any human shackles. The battle of 
the human spirit for fellowship with God in Christ 
goes on through the ages. A noble line of interpreters 
of Christ appear in every age. 

A. T. Robertson. 

Louisville, Kentucky, 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

Acknowledgments are made to the following jour- 
nals for permission to reproduce chapters that had 
previously appeared in them: The Biblical Review, 
The Expositor (London), The Methodist Review 
(New York), The Methodist Review (Nashville), The 
Christian Worker's Magazine, The Moody Monthly, 
The Expositor (Qeveland), The Record of Christian 
Work. 

CONTENTS 

CHAPTER 'AGS 

I Apollos the Minister with Insufficient 

Preparation 13 

II Barnabas the Young Preacher's Friend 30 

III Aquila and Priscilla Partners in Serv- 

ice 52 

IV James the Man of Poise 71 

V Philemon the Man with a Social Prob- 
lem 85 

VI Stephen the Pathbreaker and the Mar- 
tyr 108 

VII Lydia the Preacher's Friend and Helper 122 

VIII Silas the Comrade 134 

IX Titus the Courageous 148 

X Timothy the Faithful 158 

XI Thomas the Preacher with Honest 

Doubts 169 

XII Philip the Evangelist 182 

XIII Matthew the Business Man in the 

Ministry 192 

XIV Judas the Traitor to His Lord…206 

XV Diotrephes the Church Regulator .. 218 

XVI Epaphroditus the Minister Who Risked 

All for Christ 230 

TYPES OF PREACHERS 
IN THE NEW TESTAMENT 

CHAPTER I 

APOLLOS THE MINISTER WITH INSUFFI- 
CIENT PREPARATION 

The touch of genius does not belong to many. 
When a man of marked individuality confronts us, he 
at once attracts attention. We have various phrases 
that more or less conceal our ignorance of the subtle 
quality that charms us. We call it personal magnetism 
v^hen we cannot otherwise distinguish the element of 
power. Apollos had the note of distinction. He was 
a marked man in any gathering and left his impress 
whenever he spoke. A man who could divide honors 
with Paul in Corinth is worthy of study. We are in- 
debted to Luke (Acts 1:8 124- 19 :i) and to Paul (i Cor. 
1:12-4:21; 16:12; Titus 3:13) for all that we really 
know about him. It is argued by some that he wrote 
the Wisdom of Solomon before becoming a Chris- 
tian and the Epistle to the Hebrews after he learned to 
serve Jesus. But there is no real evidence for either 
theory. Paul calls him an apostle like himself, in 
1 Corinthians 4 :g, though it was true of him only in 
a general sense, since he had not seen the risen Christ 
and was not a personal follower while Jesus lived on 
earth. 

A JEW WITH ALEXANDRIAN CULTURE 

Luke speaks of him as "a certain Jew named 
Apollos, an Alexandrian by race.'* Schmiedel (*'En- 

13 

14. TYPES OF PREACHERS ] 

cyclopaedia Biblica") and McGiffert (*'The Apostolic - 
Age," p. 291) seek to discredit the statements of Luke i 
in various particulars, but they admit this statement. i 
The Bezan text (D) gives the longer form of the \ 
name, Apollonius. This is one of the few times that 
Alexandria is mentioned in the New Testament, , 
though the influence of the Alexandrian teaching is; 
discernible in various passages, as in John 1:1-18; ■ 
Colossians 1:15-17; Hebrews 1:1-3. In Alexandria 
the Septuagint translation of the Hebrew Bible was 
made, and this Greek Old Testament exerted a tre- 
mendous influence on the Jews of the Dispersion and \ 
upon early Christians. Alexandria had the greatest 
library of antiquity and a great university. The Jews ■ 
were very numerous and were treated with much favor i 
there. Alexandria was thus a center of Hellenism 
and of Judaism. Plato and Moses met in Alexandria ] 
in the Greek tongue. The Jews there read the Sep- ^. 
tuagint and spoke the vernacular koine. Thousands \ 
of papyri fragments now reveal to us the Greek of! 
Egypt in the first century a.d. 1 

One of the greatest Jews of all times lived in Alex- 
andria in that century. Apollos could have studied,; 
or at least read, the philosophy of Philo, the chief | 
exponent of the Jewish-Alexandrian philosophy. \ 
Grammar, rhetoric, philosophy, astronomy, mathe- 
matics, medicine, geography, were all subjects of 
lectures by learned professors in Alexandria. Apollos .: 
lived in this atmosphere of culture and is thus like Paul,; 
who came from the environment of the University of 
Tarsus. Christianity and culture have not always 
understood one another. In some university circles to- 

APOLLOS THE MINISTER 15 

day Christ is taboo. The Renaissance led to the Ref- 
ormation, but Erasmus and his Greek Testament did 
not hold all lovers of the new learning. Paganism still 
has its grip upon some modern scholarship. In Alex- 
andria Philo sought to reconcile Plato and Moses. He 
did it by the allegorical method that won great favor 
in the later Christian school of theology in Alexandria 
under Origen and Clement of Alexandria. It was a 
favorite method of certain rabbis, and Paul is familiar 
with it. Apollos undoubtedly knew the new eclectic 
philosophy that combined Platonism, Aristotelianism, 
Stoicism, and Mosaism, and the new exegetical method. 
He was at home with the new rhetoric and knew how 
to express his opinions with force. Luke calls him 
"an eloquent man" (X^7tos), but the word means also 
"learned." In fact it includes both learning and elo- 
quence (Knowling, Acts, in loco). The early Chris- 
tians had none too many men of literary culture. Paul, 
Luke, and the author of the Hebrews are the outstand- 
ing ones. Apollos is a welcome addition to this small 
circle. 

A MIGHTY INTERPRETER OF THE SCRIPTURES 

Apollos was "able" (dwards) in the use of the Scrip- 
tures. A man may have a considerable knowledge of 
the Bible and yet not be able to use his knowledge effec- 
tively. But Apollos was no "Doctor Dry-as-dust." 
He did not have his learning laid away in an attic or 
in cold storage. He had learned much of the Old 
Testament .by heart and knew how to find what he 
wanted. D. L. Moody was not as great a technical 
scholar as some men, but he knew how to use the sword 

16 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

of the Spirit with tremendous power; it was no Saul's 
armor to this David. Spurgeon was as remarkable 
for his knowledge of the Scriptures as for his skill as 
a preacher; his Treasury of David is a treasury indeed. 
Alexander Maclaren's ^'Expositions of Holy Scrip- 
tures" reveal the richness of Scripture knowledge 
possessed by this prince of preachers. John A. 
Broadus was another preacher of great pulpit power 
who gloried in the Scriptures. The last lecture that 
Broadus delivered to his New Testament class in the 
Southern Baptist Theological Seminary was on 
Apollos. He made a thrilling appeal to young minis- 
ters to be "mighty in the Scriptures." 

It is not possible to be powerful in the use of the 
Scriptures without an adequate knowledge of the 
books of Scripture. One, if possible, should have 
technical acquaintance with the problems of scholar- 
ship, the language, the history, the religious ideas, the 
social conditions, the relations to other religions and 
peoples, the development in response to new ideas, the 
transforming power of Christ's life and teachings 
upon mankind. The word for "mighty" is used in 
Acts 7:22 of Moses, who was slow of speech: "And 
he was mighty in his words and works." He "was 
instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians." So 
was Apollos, only his Egyptian equipment included 
the addition of Hellenism and Judaism. Herodotus 
applies the word for "eloquent" ( 'Kdyios ) to knowledge 
of history, and Plutarch uses it of eloquence (C/. 
KnowHng, Acts in loco). Ramsay ("St. Paul the 
Traveller," p. 267) calls Apollos "a good speaker, and 
well read in the Scripture." He is apparently the first 

APOLLOS THE MINISTER IT 

Christian preacher who expounds Christianity from 
the standpoint of the philosophy of Alexandria. Some 
Philonian speculations may well have been inter- 
mingled with his profound knowledge of the Scrip- 
tures. The allegorical method of exegesis would seem 
novel and wonderful, and the orator's touch gave a 
magic spell to his oratory. Such a man was bound 
to win a hearing and a following. As a loyal Jew 
he had devoted his learning and eloquence to the expo- 
sition of Scripture (Rackham, "Acts," p. 341). 

A CHRISTIAN WITH ONLY THE KNOWLEDGE OF 
THE BAPTIST 

Here we confront a difficult problem. Precisely how 
much did Apollos know of Jesus? The Bezan Text 
(D) says that "he had been instructed in the way of 
the Lord in his native land" (ovtos rjv KaTrjxiP'^T^os Trjv oddv 
70V Kvptov). This means that Apollos learned what 
he knew of Jesus in Alexandria. There is nothing im- 
possible in that idea. The knowledge of Apollos may 
well represent the condition of Christianity in Alex- 
andria when he left. Luke says that he knew *'only 
the baptism of John" and yet he was ''instructed in 
the way of the Lord" and "spake and taught accurately 
the things concerning Jesus." McGiffert ("The Apos- 
tolic Age," p. 291) says that this statement of Luke 
can hardly be accurate "because it seems contradic- 
tory." Schmiedel ("Encyclopaedia Biblica") would 
make these verses later additions, and Wendt (Meyer, 
Komm. "Acts") would erase verse 25. Harnack ("Ex- 
pansion of Christianity," 1:33 m) says that "the whole 
narrative of Acts at this point is singularly colored 

18 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

and obscure." There is obscurity, beyond a doubt, but 
it is not impossible to form an intelligent idea of what 
the theological standpoint of Apollos was when he 
came to Ephesus. It is not necessary to know whether 
he had learned what he knew of Jesus from a written 
document, one of the early attempts to set forth the 
work of Jesus (Luke 1:2). He may have had an early 
copy of Mark's Gospel if it ended at 16:8, as Blass 
suggests ('Thilology of the Gospels," p. 31). Even if 
the word for "instructed" {Kartixw^vos) implies oral 
instruction, as Wright argues {The Expository Times, 
Oct., 1897, p. 9f.), books were often read aloud. The 
point is not decisive. Catechists may have come to 
Alexandria, even though no Ch4:istian church may have 
existed there. 

What we need to do is to approach Apollos from 
the standpoint of John the Baptist, not from that of 
Paul. John came "in the way of righteousness," 
Jesus said (Matthew 21 :32). John was put to death be- 
fore Calvary, before the Resurrection of Jesus, and 
before the great Pentecost. John went on with his 
work after Jesus began His ministry, but he clearly 
identified Jesus as "the Lamb of God, that taketh away 
the sin of the world" (John 1 129) and as "the Son of 
God" (John 1 134). He said that the Messiah would 
baptize with the Holy Spirit (Mark 1:8). He saw 
some of his disciples leave him to follow Jesus as the 
Messiah (John 1:37). John's work exerted a tre- 
mendous influence on Judaism, and it went on after 
his death. It is not strange that some of his disciples 
were caught in the transition stage and did not know 
all the rapid developments of Christianity. The 

APOLLOS THE MINISTER 19 

disciples of John who became Christians were not bap- 
tised again. John's baptism is all the baptism that 
Jesus had, or His first six disciples. It was sufficient. 
Baptism is probably used by Luke in Acts 18:25 for 
the whole work of John as Jesus employed it in Mat- 
thew 21 125. Apollos, then, occupied the pre-Pente- 
costal standpoint, though a sincere follower of Jesus 
(Robertson, "John the Loyal," p. 293). He inter- 
preted the things of Christ accurately as far as he 
knew them. He had imperfect knowledge rather than 
erroneous information. He was in no sense a heretic, 
though he was sadly deficient in important points. 

It is argued by some (Roberts, for instance, in 
Hastings's "Dictionary of the Apostolic Church") that 
Apollos not only "had an imperfect ^hearsay' acquaint- 
ance with the story of Jesus," but he really knqfw no 
more about Him than the twelve misguided disciples 
of John whom Paul encounters in Ephesus after Apol- 
los has gone (Acts 19:1-7). In fact these twelve 
men are regarded by this theory as disciples of Apollos 
and as an index of the knowledge possessed by him. 
It is, I believe, wholly unlikely that these men were 
disciples of Apollos, and, if so, they, as often happens, 
failed to understand their teacher. Luke could not 
have used the adverb "accurately" about the teaching 
of Apollos if he knew no more than these twelve men. 
They were ignorant of the Holy Spirit, of repentance, 
and of Jesus. John the Baptist had taught all these 
things, which, of course, Apollos knew. These men 
were sadly misguided disciples of John whom Paul 
instructs and baptizes. There is no hint that Apollos 
was baptized again. Luke contrasts their condition 

20 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

with that of Apollos. These men were raw and un- 
couth in their knowledge of the elements of Chris- 
tianity. They represent the stage of some of the 
disciples of John who hung on the very fringe of 
Christianity. Apollos is much further along. He 
lacked knowledge of the great events from the death 
of Christ to Pentecost and the great missionary propa- 
ganda. It was a pity for so gifted a man to remain 
with so limited a knowledge of Christianity. It is al- 
ways a tragedy for a minister to be deficient in his 
knowledge of the cross of Christ. Only the Spirit of 
God can teach him fully. 

A PASSIONATE ENTHUSIAST, QUICK TO LEARN 

It is possible that Apollos first began to speak and 
to teach privately, and then *'he began to speak boldly 
in the synagogue" (Acts 18:26) as Paul did after- 
wards for three months (19:8). Luke uses the same 
word for this "bold" speaking by Apollos and Paul 
(irapp7](na^o(jiaL). It is employed in the New Testa- 
ment only by Luke and Paul and always of the bold 
declaration of the truths of the Gospel. Apollos did 
not lack the courage of his convictions and was care- 
ful in his statements about Jesus to keep within the 
bounds of his definite knowledge. This admirable 
trait of minute accuracy is all the more noticeable since 
Apollos was ^'fervent in spirit" (^ecav tc^ irvevixan) , 
An enthusiastic temperament is sometimes exuberant 
in expressions that are more florid and rhetorical than 
accurate. Paul commends fervency (Romans 12:11) as 
one of the marks of sincerity. The word means liter- 
ally boiling over (our "zeal"). 

APOLLOS THE MINISTER 21 

It was in the synagogue that Apollos attracted the 
attention of Priscilla and Aquila, whom Paul had left 
in Ephesus when he went on to Csesarea and Antioch 
(Acts 1:8:2if). The mention of Priscilla before 
Aquila here, though the Western and Syrian types of 
text have Aquila and Priscilla, may mean that Priscilla 
took the leading part in the further instruction of 
Apollos. They were evidently surprised and delighted 
with this remarkable preacher and saw at once the 
obvious defects in his knowledge of the Gospel. But 
they did not stop with this discovery, nor did they 
indulge in public criticism of the limitations of Apollos 
as an expounder of the faith. They could easily have 
closed the door of service for this brilliant man. But 
they apparently invited him home after worship, 
probably for dinner. "They took him unto them" 
(irpoaeKaPovTo avrov, indirect middle, took him to them- 
selves). 

Criticism is a delicate task, a sort of spiritual sur- 
gery, and, though greatly needed, is very difficult to 
perform without doing more harm than good. 
Preachers, like musicians, are highly sensitive, particu- 
larly about their sermons and their knowledge of the 
Gospel which is their specialty. Apollos had a great 
acquaintance with the Scriptures and philosophy and 
rhetoric. He was lacking in some important items 
about Jesus. It would have been easy to give him 
offense and to add to his eccentricity. But Priscilla 
was beyond a doubt a woman of tact. They "ex- 
pounded unto him the way of God more accurately." 
This is simply superb. It was done thoroughly, neatly, 
and smoothly {aKpi^karepov avToo kl^kdevTo). Fortunately 

22 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

they did not have to contravene any of his positions. 
He was correct as far as he went. Only he did not 
go far enough. 

One can easily imagine how the heart of Apollos 
burned within him and how his eyes glistened as he 
learned of the Cross, the Resurrection, the Ascension, 
the Pentecostal Power of the Holy Spirit, the Gentile 
campaign for world conquest. He was an eager pupil 
and doubtless cheered the hearts of his hosts and 
teachers. Evidently Apollos exhibited profound grati- 
tude for the new light that had been turned upon the 
great problems of Christianity. He readily saw the 
bearing of it all upon what he already knew so well. 
There is hope for the man who is ready to learn. One 
is never too old to learn. The minister who is always 
learning will always have a hearing. There is no dead 
line for him. That comes the minute one stops learn- 
ing. Apollos is a rebuke to the preacher who is con- 
tent to preach his old sermons through the years 
without reading the new books or mastering the old 
ones. Here is a profound student of the Scriptures, 
a master in Old Testament interpretation, who is glad 
to sit at the feet of Priscilla and Aquila and learn more 
of Jesus. That is the place for all of us, at the feet 
of anyone who can teach us more about Jesus. We 
cannot know too much about Him. We cannot be 
too accurate in our knowledge of Him. The passion 
of Paul in his later years was to know Jesus, for 
Christ always eludes us just a bit. There is always 
more to learn about the unsearchable riches of Christ. 

APOLLOS THE MINISTER 23 

A POWERFUL APOLOGIST FOR CHRISTIANITY 

The Bezan text (D) has this: "And there were 
certain Corinthians sojourning in Ephesus, and when 
they heard him they besought him to cross over with 
them to their country. And when he had consented, 
the Ephesians wrote to the disciples in Corinth that 
they should receive the man." This is quite likely 
the real origin of the way that Apollos came to go to 
Corinth, though it is clearly not the original text of 
Acts. So Apollos "was minded to pass over into 
Achaia,"and "the brethren encouraged him" {irpoTpep- 
iLjxevoL, 'putting him forward). He seemed to be 
just the type of man that would suit the situation in 
Corinth. Priscilla and Aquila knew Corinth well; 
and the Corinthian brethren in Ephesus no doubt felt 
that they had made a great "find" for their church in 
the metropolis, just like a modern pulpit committee. 
There was apparently no organized church as yet in 
Ephesus, though some Christians were there, besides 
Aquila and Priscilla. Apollos was fully equipped 
with a cordial letter of commendation. Paul will later 
comment on the fact that he himself needed no "epistles 
of commendation to you or from you" "as do some" 
(2 Corinthians 3:1). 

Apollos soon justified the wisdom of those who had 
Brought him. "He helped them much that had believed 
through grace" (Acts 18:27). He seems to have ad- 
dressed himself chiefly to those already Christians who 
had been converted under Paul's ministry. Evidently 
Apollos was less evangelistic than Paul. These hearers 
had already "believed through grace," and Apollos 

S4f TYPES OF PREACHERS 

"helped them much" (o-we/SdXero ttoXu). He gave them 
a constructive interpretation of Christianity with the 
fresh glow of the new knowledge acquired in Ephesus 
and, in particular, "he powerfully confuted the Jews, 
and that publicly, showing by the scriptures that Jesus 
was the Christ'' (Acts 18:28). It will be recalled that 
in Corinth the Jews had blasphemed Paul for preaching 
this very doctrine (Acts 18:6) and had brought Paul 
before Gallio, much to their sorrow (18:12-17). The 
issue was still sharply drawn between Jews and Chris- 
tians in Corinth. Apollos was doubly welcome because 
of his great knowledge of and skill in the use of the 
Scriptures. He * 'argued them down" ( 8iaKaTri\kyxeTo; 
note imperfect tense and double compound). He did 
not necessarily convince the Jews though he disputed 
"vehemently" (€vt6vo3s; cf. Luke 23:10). 

But the powerful apologetic of Apollos made a pro- 
found impression upon the Christians in Corinth. He 
was hailed, and rightly so, as a champion of the faith. 
Apollos was a new tj^ to them. The scholastic and 
philosophical turn of his mind was pleasing in Corinth. 
Paul did not have the excellency of speech from the 
rhetorical standpoint or the persuasive words of wis- 
dom (1 Corinthians 2:1-4) that Apollos had and that many 
of them liked. It is one of the blessings of life that 
men have different gifts. God can use them all. It 
would be a great misfortune if preachers were just 
alike in intellectual equipment and in style of speech. 

A SKILFUL BUILDER ON PAUL's FOUNDATION 

"I planted, Apollos watered; but God gave the in- 
crease" (1 Corinthians 3 :6). Paul "as a wise master-builder" 

APOLLOS THE MINISTER 25 

(3:10; cf. Lock, *'St. Paul the Masterbuilder" ) had 
laid the foundation that should underlie every church, 
Jesus Christ (3:11). "Another buildeth thereon," he 
said, with probable reference to Apollos. Both Paul 
and Apollos had been "God's fellow workers" (Gcou 
avvepyol ), while the Corinthian church was "God's 
building" ( Oeov oUodofirj ) , "God's husbandry" (Qeov 
yeajpytop ), to change the figure (3:9). Paul was the 
architect (dpxtrkrwi/), but he simply carried out God's 
plan for the building. It required many men and 
long years to build a cathedral which the German shells 
demolished in an hour. But each man through the 
years carried on the work according to the great plan 
laid down. So Paul rejoiced in the work of Apollos 
who succeeded him in Corinth, as Jesus rejoiced in 
the work of John the Baptist who preceded Him (John 
4:36f). The one who sows and the one who reaps 
rejoice together. Each preacher enters into the labor 
of others. There is no cause for jealousy, but only 
ground for gratitude. It is part of the preacher's 
business to learn how to fit his work into that of the 
man who preceded him. He must be a constructive 
builder, not a destructive critic. It is beautiful to see 
how Paul rejoices in the work of his co-workers. He 
had apparently not seen Apollos until he had finished 
his work in Corinth and had returned to Ephesus 
(1 Corinthians 16:12). 

We do not know why Apollos left Corinth. He may 
have had premonitions of trouble. Divisions exist in 
the church when Paul writes to them, that arose pri- 
marily out of partisan preferences for Apollos or Paul. 
Weizsacker ("The Apostolic Age in the Christian 

Ste TYPES OF PREACHERS 

Church," vol. i, p. 320) thinks that "an Apollos party- 
was only formed some time after his departure. And 
this supposition is in turn confirmed by the fact that no 
shadow of blame fell on Apollos for the creation of the 
party." This judgment is in accord with the facts as 
we know them. We know nothing of the unfortunate 
schisms in Corinth, except what Paul tells us himself, 
save that the trouble was still there when Clement 
wrote his ^'Epistle to the Church." Paul recognizes 
frankly the differences between his manner of preach- 
ing and that of Apollos. Men are not made after the 
same pattern. There are diversities of gifts from the 
same Spirit (1 Corinthians 12:1-7). Apollos had rhetorical 
eloquence and used the language of the Alexandrian 
philosophy (wisdom), but Paul was not jealous of 
these gifts, since God had given him the demonstra- 
tion and power of the Holy Spirit. Paul was their 
spiritual father, and Apollos could only be their peda- 
gogue (1 Corinthians 4:15). They had each his own place 
and work, and each would receive his own reward from 
God as steward of the mysteries of God (4:1-5). 

It is evident that Paul regarded the work of Apollos 
as a continuation of his own, and he and Apollos were 
on excellent terms in Ephesus. The free way in which 
he uses his name shows this (i Cor. i :1:2; 3 :4). Paul 
is not writing out of any jealousy of Apollos or of 
bitterness towards him. It is quite likely that Paul 
conferred with Apollos regarding the critical situa- 
tion that had arisen in Corinth. They understood 
one another on this point (Kerr, **Int. Stand. Bibl. 
Encycl."). Apollos was no more responsible for the 
spirit of faction in Corinth than was Paul or Peter. 

APOLLOS THE MINISTER 27 

"Nor has he reproached Apollos with seeking to over- 
shadow him by his own mode and style" (Weizsacker, 
ibid. p. 321). Paul tells us why he speaks so plainly 
about Apollos: "Now these things, brethren, I have 
in a figure transferred [fjiereaxnt^o-rLaa] to myself and 
Apollos for your sakes; that in us ye might learn 
not to go beyond the things that are written; that no 
one of you be puffed up for the one against the other" 
(1 Corinthians 4:6). This is the secret of the whole matter. 
"This sensitiveness on this point was directed not 
against Apollos but against the party" (Weizsacker, 
ibid.). Paul speaks plainly that the schismatics may 
see the point. It was folly to split the church over 
three preachers (Paul, Apollos, Cephas) as they were 
doing (1 Corinthians 1:12; 3:4), when these preachers were 
only co-workers and they could love them all (3 :22f ). 
Sometimes preachers are put in the light of opposition 
when they are wholly innocent. 

A LEADER UNWILLING TO FOSTER A FACTION 

Paul has some severe words about teachers who 
destroy the temple of God (1 Corinthians 3 :1:6-2i). He un- 
doubtedly has in mind the factional leaders in Corinth. 
It is bad enough when a man builds with wood, hay, 
stubble on the good foundation (3:12-15). Fire will 
test the quality of every preacher's and teacher's work. 
He may himself be saved, but all his preaching goes up 
in smoke, dry enough as some of it is. That is pathetic 
enough from the preacher's standpoint, but it is far 
worse for a preacher to be the cause of the ruin of a 
church. Some men are church-builders; others are 
church-destroyers and wreck church after church. 

28 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

These men should be banished to a desert island. But 
the best of men may be the occasion of strife in spite 
of all that they can do. 

After Apollos had left Corinth the members of the 
church began to discuss the relative merits of Paul and 
Apollos as preachers and teachers. The very eccen- 
tricities of the two men v^ere exaggerated and pitted 
over against each other. Apollos' ''brilliancy and 
Alexandrian modes of thought and expression readily 
lent themselves to any tendency to form a party, who 
would exalt these gifts at the expense of Paul's studied 
plainness" (Robertson and Plummer, "Int. Crit. 
Comm.," p. ii). "The difference between Apollos and 
St. Paul seems to be not so much a difference of views 
as in the mode of stating those views; the eloquence 
of St. Paul was rough and burning; that of Apollos 
was more refined and polished" (F. W. Robertson). 
But, after this issue was made partisans of each sprang 
up and heat was engendered. It is possible that Peter 
made a brief visit to Corinth, but at any rate the 
Judaisers came and were only too glad to find opposi- 
tion to Paul's leadership in Corinth. These men sought 
to win the whole church away from Paul by playing 
Peter against Paul and Apollos as the chief apostle 
and the exponent of the real orthodoxy, free from the 
Gentile laxness of Paul and the Alexandrian philosophy 
of Apollos. This petty partisanship so disgusted some 
that they actually made a partisan use of Christ's name 
and started a Christ party (1 Corinthians 1:12). 

So the wheels went round, to the disgust of Paul 
and of Apollos. The household of Chloe brought news 
of the dreadful situation (i :ii). Paul wrote in great 

APOLLOS THE MINISTER 29 

eagerness to quell the narrow spirit of selfishness be- 
fore the church was ruined. He even begged Apollos 
to go over and see what he could do (16:12), as some 
of them may have requested: **But as touching Apol- 
los the brother, I besought him much to come unto 
you with the brethren; and it was not at all his will to 
come now; but he will come when he shall have oppor- 
tunity." Apollos was right to stay away, and not to 
fan the flame by going back himself. He had not 
caused the trouble; he would not add to it. Paul 
himself is reluctant to go as yet (4:1:8f.). They both 
set a good example for preachers when a church is 
divided over the ministers. The world is wide and 
Apollos went elsewhere. We last hear of him in Crete 
as the bearer with Zenas the lawyer of Paul's Epistle 
to Titus (Titus 3:13). Some of the early writers say 
that he went back to Corinth after some years; but it is 
plain that Apollos and Paul continued to be friends. 
A gifted man like Apollos is the very kind of man 
to cause misunderstanding by his brilliant epigrams 
and the charm of his style. One can only do the best 
that he can and go on. But God has use for a bril- 
liant scholar like Apollos, yes, and like Paul. Each 
must do his work in his own way. If people praise 
him, well and good. If not, *'then shall each man 
have his praise from God" (1 Corinthians 4:5). *With me 
it is a very small thing that I should be judged of you" 
(4 :3). Paul is not resentful or defiant in these words, 
but he does hold himself above the petty scorn or praise 
of the gossips in Corinth. The froth and the foam' 
pass away, but the name and the work of Apollos re- 
main as part of the glory of Christianity. 

CHAPTER II 

BARNABAS THE YOUNG PREACHER'S 
FRIEND 

One cannot resist the feeling that Barnabas is not 
properly rated by modem Christians. This defect is' 
partly due to the fact that Luke does not trace his' 
career after Chapter 15 of Acts. He drops from view 
tinder the shadow of the disagreement with Paul whose 
steps Luke traces all the way to Rome. And then wei 
have no authentic writing of Barnabas. TertuUian 
and other writers in the West attribute to Barnabas 
the Epistle to the Hebrews, but the bare possibility of 
that theory is all that can be admitted. Clement of 
Alexandria quotes the so-called Epistle of Barnabas' 
as the work of Paul's companion. Origen speaks of 
the Catholic Epistle of Barnabas and Eusebius men- 
tions the Epistle of Barnabas. The Codex Sinaiticus" 
gives it after the Apocalypse of John, showing that it 
was esteemed highly in Alexandria, and was read in 
some churches. But the writer is so hostile to the 
Mosaic law that it seems impossible to credit it to 
Joseph Barnabas. Some other Barnabas may have 
written it. McGiffert ("Apostolic Age," p. 598f.) 
pleads for the idea that Barnabas wrote i Peter, but not 
with convincing arguments.^ We may pass by the 

*Moffatt ("Introduction to Literature of the New Testament," 
pp. 343 n., 437) shows that Barnabas had no reason to conceal his 
authorship if he wrote the epistle. 

30 

BARNABAS THE PREACHER'S FRIEND 31 

Apocryphal Gospel and the Acts under the name of 
Barnabas. The result is that we are left with no clearly* 
known writing of Barnabas by which we may measure 
his life and teachings. We are wholly dependent upon 
Acts and Paul's Epistles for our knowledge of this 
great figure in early Christian history. There are 
traditions that he was one of the seventy sent forth 
by Jesus (Luke io:i), that he preached the gospel in 
Rome, that he was the founder of the Church in Milan, 
that he worked in Cyprus till his death at Salamis in 
A.D. 6i. But Luke and Paul enable us to gain a clear 
picture of Barnabas if we piece together all the inci- 
dents wherein he figures. At the Conference in 
Jerusalem (Acts 15:1-29; Galatians 2:1-10), assuming 
the identity of the visits, the five foremost figures are 
Paul and Barnabas on one side, Peter, James and John 
on the other, in the private conference when the pro- 
gram was drawn up and the concordat reached. 
Light foot ^ hardly does Barnabas justice in his able 
discussion of "St. Paul and the Three." Barnabas, 
from this standpoint, is a mere figurehead. And yet 
twice in. Acts 15 the order is ^'Barnabas and Paul." 
Barnabas spoke before Paul (15:12) as the better 
known in Jerusalem and less offensive to the Church 
there. In the Letter to the Antioch Church we read: 
^'our beloved Barnabas and Paul, men that have 
hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus 
Christ" (1:5:25f.). Elsewhere, save in Acts 14:14, 
after Acts 13:43, Luke has it Paul and Barnabas. 
Renan ^ pointedly says of Barnabas: *'After St. Paul, 

* "Commentary on Galatians," pp. 129-212. 
*"The Apostles," tr., p. 124. 

82 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

he was the most active missionary of the first century." 
Renan ^ pleads that ''Barnabas won at the hands of the 
Christian world the highest degree of merit." Renan 
would apparently rank Barnabas next to Paul. That 
is too high a place for him when one considers John 
and Peter. But he is entitled to stand with James, the 
Lord's brother, in the group of foremost men of his 
generation. 

I. A LIBERAL CONTRIBUTOR TO THE POOR SAINTS 
IN JERUSALEM 

It is in this capacity that we first hear of him (Acts 
4, 36f.). His name is Joseph, but not the Joseph 
Barsabbas Justus of Acts i :2^. His home was in the 
island of Cyprus and, though a Levite, he owned prop- 
erty (probably there). Originally the Levites owned 
no land (Numbers 18:20), but the case of Jeremiah 
(J^^- 33*7"1:5) shows that the rule was not always 
strictly observed, for a Levite could buy or inherit a 
piece of land. But in the new Christian community, 
where most had little wealth, this Levitical irregularity 
(Furneaux, "Acts," p. 68) may have stood in the way 
of the influence of Barnabas. There was no compul- 
sion, but the voluntary surrender of all for the good 
of the whole at once gave Barnabas a place of promi- 
nence and power in the Jerusalem Church, to the envy 
of Ananias and Sapphira. 

Now Barnabas had shown himself the true Levite 
with the Lord as his portion. He had spiritual wealth 
(Rackham, "Acts," p. 63) that far outweighed the 
value of his land. The use of the singular (t6 xpvua) 

* "The Apostles," p. 191. 

BARNABAS THE PREACHER'S FRIEND 33 

implies that Barnabas gave the total value of the sale i 
to the support of the poor saints, quite in contrast to 
the duplicity of Ananias and Sapphira. Our first 
picture of Barnabas is that of a man of generous sym- 1 
pathies with the common people in spite of his more? 
aristocratic affiliations/ He was a cousin of John 
Mark (Colossians 4:10) whose mother, Mary, was likewise 
a woman of some wealth since her home in Jerusalem 
was the gathering place of the Jerusalem Christians 
(Acts 12:12). 

It is probable that Joseph, the Cyprian Levite, iden- 
tified himself thoroughly with the Jerusalem Church, 
and perhaps made his home with Mary. Luke men- 
tions at this point the surname of Barnabas that was 
given him by the apostles, possibly at a later time, 
though his unselfish generosity already predisposed all 
to cherish the most kindly sentiments toward him. 

Luke translates Barnabas by "son of exhortation" 
(vtds TrapaK\ti(Tetf»s) y though the Greek covers also the 
ideas of consolation and of encouragement. There is 
no English word that can carry all these ideas, and 
we face the same difficulty with the term "Paraclete" 
for the Holy Spirit. Scholars are not agreed as to 
the etymology of the word Barnabas. The Aramaic 
Bar means son, and Nabas may be connected with the 
Hebrew Nebi (prophet), son of prophecy, or with the 
Aramaic Nevahah, refreshment. But Deissmann ^ 
argues that Barnabas is really Barnebous, Son of 
Nebo, a name found in a Syrian inscription. At any 
rate, there is no doubt that Joseph was worthy of the 
surname. He was a prophet and a teacher (Acts 

* "Bible Studies," pp. 1:87f., 307-310. 

S4 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

13:1), and an apostle (Acts 14:14). He was 
worthy of all these titles, as we shall see. He was not 
one of the twelve, as Paul was not, but, like James the 
Lord's brother (Galatians 1 119), he was an apostle in the 
wider sense of the term. In the early years in Jerusa- 
lem Joseph Barnabas was a tower of strength for the 
young Church. 

II. SPONSOR FOR SAUL WHEN UNDER SUSPICION 

It may seem strange that the conversion of Saul was 
at most only a rumor in Jerusalem after the space of 
some three years. But Saul spent most of that time in 
Arabia, and his own conduct as the leader of the 
Pharisaic persecution in Jerusalem was enough to 
throw suspicion upon any reports of his change of 
heart and life in Damascus. Besides, the Sanhedrin 
may have spread sinister rumors about Saul's prob- 
able motives in his avowal of Christianity. His pro- 
longed absence from Jerusalem was in itself peculiar, 
and he brought .no letters of recommendation from 
the Christians in Damascus. It is not easy to live down 
one's past. The very completeness of Saul's work of 
destruction in Jerusalem made it all the more impera- 
tive that no mistake be made this time. The wolf 
might throw off the sheep's clothing and again ravin 
the fold. Saul had come "to visit Cephas" (laropTJaaL 
K'r](f>dv, Gal. I :1:8). He had not come to be inducted 
into his apostolic office. That authority he had re- 
ceived from the Lord Jesus, not from man (Galatians 1:1). 
But Saul wished to carry on his Gentile mission in 
harmony with the apostles, and there was much that he 
could learn about the earthly life of Jesus from Simon 

BARNABAS THE PREACHER'S FRIEND 35 

Peter during these two weeks. It is probable that 
Peter and Barnabas were both staying at the home of 
Mary (Acts 12:12). No other apostles were present 
in Jerusalem at the time save James the Lord's brother 
(Galatians 1:19). Evidently Peter and James, as well as 
the other disciples, were full of fear. "They were all 
afraid of him" (Trdi^res €<I>o^ovvto avrSvy Acts 9:26). 
The imperfect tense pictures the shrinking away from 
Saul as he presented himself. "He essayed to join him- 
self to the disciples" {kirelpa^ev KoWdcOaC rots }iadr)Tals). 
The imperfect tense again shows that Saul did not 
give up without a struggle. He was deeply mortified 
beyond a doubt. "Saul's nature could ill brook mis- 
trust; and there might have been unhappy consequences 
but for the work of a mediator" (Rackham, "Acts," 
in loco). To put it bluntly, they did not believe that 
Saul was a genuine disciple, not even his own repeated 
statements to that effect. Saul stood discredited before 
the very man whom he had come to visit as a brother 
and co-worker. The memory of Saul's fierce hatred 
of these men flared up like a flame. Criticism and fear 
demanded that Saul furnish proof of his sincerity 
before he be received as a brother in Christ. It was 
a crucial moment for Saul and for Christianity. A 
fatal misunderstanding at this moment might have 
had the most disastrous consequences. 

"But Barnabas took him (kirLXa^oixevos,, taking hold 
of by the hand, literally) and brought him ( ijyayev, 
perhaps with some reluctance now on Saul's part) to 
the apostles (irpds toys dTroo-roXous, face to face with 
Peter and James)." Not simply did Barnabas do that, 
but he "declared unto them how he had seen the Lord 

S6 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

in the way, and that he had spoken to him, and how 
at Damascus he had preached boldly in the name of 
Jesus" (Acts 9:27). Saul himself had told his story 
to Barnabas, who now vouched for the correctness of 
it and for the genuineness of his conversion. It was 
a bold and a noble thing to do. It may well be that 
Saul and Barnabas had been friends at the university 
of Tarsus before they were Christians, the one a 
Levite from Cyprus, the other the Pharisee from 
Tarsus, both Hellenists and loyal young Jews. **It 
was he who appreciated Paul; it was to him that the 
Church owes the most extraordinary of her founders. 
» .. Among the causes of the faith of the world we 
must count the generous movement of Barnabas, 
stretching out his hand to the suspected and forsaken 
Paul; the profound intuition which led him to dis- 
cover the soul of an apostle under that humiliated air; 
the frankness with which he broke the ice and leveled 
the obstacles raised. between the convert and his new 
brethren by the unfortunate antecedents of the former, 
and perhaps, also, by certain traits of his character." ^ 
This tribute to Barnabas is not overdone. The life of 
Barnabas seems to be devoted to the ministry of those 
in distress. It is a noble ministry for any life. Saul 
and Peter and James could each tell how they had seen 
the Risen Christ.^ As a result of the friendship of 
Barnabas Saul "was with them going in and going 
out at Jerusalem" (Acts 9:28), received on terms of 
perfect equality as the guest of Simon Peter. It is 

' Renan, "The Apostles," p. 191. 

^ Swete, "The Appearances of Our Lord after the Resurrec- 
tion," p. 88. 

BARNABAS THE PREACHER'S FRIEND 37 

a high sort of courage to champion the cause of a dis- 
credited man. The Sanhedrin looked upon Saul as a 
renegade Jew. The disciples feared him as a hypocrite. 
Barnabas took him as a brother beloved and risked all f 
his own great reputation to save Saul to Christianity. 
When the Hellenists in Jerusalem threatened to kill 
Saul as he had led them to stone Stephen, **the breth- 
ren knew it," possibly Barnabas being the first to see 
Saul's peril, and "they brought him down to Caesarea, 
and sent him forth to Tarsus" (Acts 9:30). 

III. CHAMPION OF THE GREEK CHRISTIANS IN 
ANTIOCH 

Events moved rapidly. The ministry of Philip in 
Samaria led to the visit of Peter and John to investi- 
gate the work of grace among these half-Jews (Acts 
8:1:4ff). The visit to Peter and the six brethren to 
Cornelius (Acts 10), a God-fearing Roman and 
proselyte of the gate in Csesarea, made quite a stir 
among the Pharisaic party in the Jerusalem Church 
who called Peter to account for his mingling with the 
Gentiles (Acts 11 :i-1:8). But the word of God is not 
bound, as Peter had found out though with difficulty. 
Men of Cyprus and Cyrene went as far as Antioch 
and "spake unto the Greeks also (correct text, in spite 
of Aleph and B), preaching the Lord Jesus" (Acts 
II :2o). There was already a Samaritan Church from 
Philip's work and a Roman Church in Csesarea from 
Peter's work. Now a Greek Church had sprung up in 
Antioch, the third city of the Roman Empire. The 
situation was a delicate one, and called for careful 
handling. It is proof of the high position of Barnabas 

38 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

in the Jerusalem Church that he was chosen (Acts ii: 
22) as a committee of one (cf. Acts 8:14) to inves- 
tigate conditions in Antioch, for **a great number that 
believed turned unto the Lord" (Acts 11:21). The 
Pharisaic party in Jerusalem had acquiesced reluctantly 
in what had happened in Csesarea (Acts 11:18). 
They were evidently alarmed at the sudden turn of 
events in Antioch. Barnabas was himself from 
Cyprus, and may have known some of the brethren 
from the island. Besides, he was a Hellenist and so 
better able to appreciate their feelings towards these 
Greek Christians, perhaps proselytes of the gate like 
Cornelius, while, as a Levite, he could be trusted to 
understand Hebrew prejudices (Furneaux, "Acts," 
p. 173). All classes in the Jerusalem Church had con- 
fidence in Barnabas and in his ability to do justice to 
the new movement and to decide whether it was of God. 
Barnabas fully justified their choice of him as the 
commissioner in this crisis. Luke pauses to bestow 
a eulogy on Barnabas, quite out of his usual style. 
It is possible that Barnabas was dead when Luke wrote, 
"for he was a good man" (11:24), perhaps recently 
deceased. At any rate Luke is fully aware of the sig- 
nificance of the occasion when Barnabas reaches 
Antioch with the future of Greek Christians in his 
hands. He knows what the Judaisers had tried to do 
to Peter in Jerusalem. Barnabas exhibits consummate 
wisdom at Antioch, and not the least element of his 
wisdom is his staying there with the Greek Christians 
and not returning to Jerusalem to make a report for 
over a year. Barnabas at once saw that the work was 
due to the grace of God, and he was glad (11:23), 

BARNABAS THE PREACHER'S FRIEND 39 

"A smaller man would have raised difficulties" (Fur- 
neaux, "Acts," p. 173). But Barnabas was able to 
rise above his Jewish prejudices and to recognize the 
change wrought in the lives of these Greeks. He saw 
that a new era had come and that God had broken down 
the middle wall of partition and had saved these Greeks 
without their becoming Jews. Barnabas was not the 
man to lay the burden of Jewish ceremonialism on 
these Christian freemen. So "he exhorted them all, 
that with purpose of heart they would cleave unto the 
Lord" (Acts 11 123). He kept on exhorting (Trape/cdXei ) 
them, for reaction would come after the first enthusi- 
asm of the new faith. Barnabas saw this peril, and 
laid himself out to make the work of grace permanent 
( irpofftxkveLV ) . 

He accepted the new order as a fact. He readjusted 
his theology, if necessary, to suit the evident work of 
God, as Peter had done at Caesarea. But Barnabas re- 
quired no vision on the housetop to see the new truth 
that God is no respecter of persons (Acts 10 134). The 
average Jew had the same pride of race that the Ger- 
mans had before their defeat at the hands of the Allies. 
Luke tells us how it came to pass that Barnabas was 
able to see so clearly the hand of God in the spiritual 
revolution going on in Antioch. "He was a good man" 
(d^a^cJs, 11:24), a kindly and a generous man, who 
was able to let the facts sweep away his prejudices 
He had convictions, but he was able to see facts that 
contravened them and to accept them openly and 
frankly. This is a severe test of character, and Bar- 
nabas stood it. He was "full of the Holy Spirit." 
He was an inspired man in the true sense of that 

40 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

phrase. He had the gift of paradesis from the Para- 
clete. As a spirit-filled man, he was able to try the 
spirits and to discern the true work of grace when 
he saw it. He was a man "of faith," and so was able 
to trust God for the future of this work without undue 
restrictions on the liberty of the brethren. He accepted 
the Greek Christians as fully on a par with the Jewish 
Christians. The whole Church lived free from the 
Jewish ceremonial restrictions (Acts 15:1; Galatians 2:11- 
14). Barnabas was a son of exhortation, consolation, 
and encouragement to these Greek Christians. 

IV. FINDING A PLACE FOR SAUL IN ANTIOCH 

The work grew mightily under the care of Barnabas. 
**And much people was added unto the Lord" (Acts 1 1: 
25). He saw that he needed help, and he knew where 
to go. He did not go to Jerusalem. He wished to 
bring no disturbing element into the life of the Greek 
Church in Antioch. Barnabas knew the man for this 
emergency. Tarsus was not very far from Antioch. 
Saul had not been idle during the years since he left 
Jerusalem in flight for his life. He had been preach- 
ing in Syria and Cilicia (Galatians 1:21). In his own way 
Saul had probably preached to the Gentiles in these 
regions and not without success, for we read of 
churches here at a later period (Acts 15:41). Bar- 
nabas believed in Saul in spite of his stormy career so 
far. He was sure that this man was a chosen vessel 
of God for this very work among the Gentiles. He 
determined to get Saul to Antioch so that the man 
and the hour could meet. I find it hard to believe that 

BARNABAS THE PREACHER'S FRIEND 41 

the Church in Jerusalem had instructed Barnabas to 
send for Saul if he needed his services. It is rather 
the in.9iVj]t itit^ rharartpr that enabled Barnabas to see 
that Saul was the master mind to meet this great crisis. 
The door was open in Antioch for Saul, and Barnabas 
*'had none of the littleness which cannot bear the pres- 
ence of a possible rival" (Furneaux, "Acts," p. 174). 
The language of Luke implies that Barnabas was not 
sure that he would find Saul in Tarsus, but he went 
forth on this quest and found him and brought him 
to Antioch (Acts 11 125 f.). The result justified the 
wisdom of Barnabas. He had blessed the church in 
Antioch, and he had given Saul his great opportunity. 
Renan overdoes the matter in saying that Saul "was 
at Tarsus in a forced repose, which to an active man 
like him was a perfect torture" ("The Apostles," p. 
207), but Barnabas did forget himself and prepared 
the field for the genius of Saul. "All this is certainly 
the very climax of virtue; and this is what Barnabas 
did for Paul. Most of the glory which is due to the 
latter is really due to the modest .man who led him 
forward" (ibid.). Barnabas and Saul had a happy 
year in Antioch. Here the disciples first won the name 
of Christians, for they were not Jews and not heathen. 
Finally Barnabas and Saul went to Jerusalem with a 
generous gift from the Greek Church in Antioch to the 
poor Jewish saints in Jerusalem (Acts 11 :29f.) at the 
time of the famine about a.d. 42-4. The Judaisers 
apparently made no protest, and the apostles were 
seemingly absent when they arrived. Barnabas had 
saved the day for Greek Christians and had saved 
Saul for his great work in the world. "Thus twice 

4a TYPES OF PREACHERS 

over did Barnabas save Saul for the work of Chris- 
tianity" (Farrar). 

V. ABLE TO TAKE SECOND PLACE FOR THE GOOD 
OF THE CAUSE 

Barnabas maintained his position of leadership in 
Antioch on their return from Jerusalem (Acts 12: 
25). In the great church at Antioch a democratic 
spirit prevailed. Five prophets and teachers are men- 
tioned (Acts 13:1) apparently in two groups (re — re) 
of three prophets (Barnabas, Symeon called Niger, 
Lucius of Cyrene) and two teachers (Manaen, foster- 
brother of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul). The 
primacy of Barnabas is above dispute, and Saul comes 
last in the list as a newcomer, possibly the latest to 
join the band of leaders in Antioch. The other three 
may have been "the pioneers of Gentile evangelisation 
at Antioch" (Furneaux, "Acts," p. 191). They all 
three had Gentile affiliations. The five names repre- 
sent five different countries, and too much difference 
between prophet and teacher is not to be insisted on 
here (1 Corinthians 14:3). The same man could have both 
gifts. Luke is a true historian in preserving the proper 
perspective here. He does not allow Saul's future 
greatness to dim the glory of Barnabas, the real leader 
at this stage of the history of Christian missions. Dr. 
George Milligan (art. "Barnabas," Hastings's D.B.) 
illustrates how hard it is to preserve the historical per- 
spective when he writes: "Barnabas accompanied 
Saul (or, as he was now to be known, Paul) on his 
first missionary journey." The Holy Spirit names the 
two men selected for the first great missionary cam- 

BARNABAS THE PREACHER'S FRIEND 43 

paign among the Gentiles with Barnabas as chief (Acts 
13:2). This order is a matter of course with the 
Antioch Church, for no one at this date can challenge 
the positon of Barnabas in their esteem. They honor 
Saul and are glad to see him named as the lieutenant 
of Barnabas in the enterprise. The hearty prayers of 
the community of disciples go with the two great 
leaders as they are formally set apart to their special 
mission. We are not to think of this occasion as 
ordination to the ministry or to the apostolic office. 
Barnabas and Saul had long been fulfilling both func- 
tions. It is rather a prayerful dedication to the special 
task of the dangerous and unknown enterprise which 
they are undertaking like a farewell service to mis- 
sionaries now. The Church at Antioch seemed to feel 
that it was a great step forward. There is no evidence 
that they undertook to finance the new departure, but 
they did agree for their two best leaders to go and 
their prayers went with them. There was no oppo- 
sition and no saying that there were heathen enough 
in Antioch. It was a time of great spiritual enthusi- 
asm when Barnabas and Saul, with John Mark as 
attendant, set forth upon their epoch-making journey. 
It is clearly Barnabas who took along his cousin John 
Mark. And yet before they leave Cyprus Saul (Paul) 
has leaped to the fore as the leader of the party. We 
shall never be able to explain precisely how it all hap- 
pened. Beyond a doubt Paul was the abler man with 
more of the spark of genius. Barnabas was glad to 
have him use his great powers of speech in various 
emergencies. In a new environment Paul was no 
longer under the shadow of Barnabas's great reputa- 

44. TYPES OF PREACHERS 

tion in Antioch. The case of Elymas was very pro- 
yoking as he tried to break the influence of Barnabas 
and Saul over Sergius Paulus. Evidently Paul's 
nature could stand it no longer. The explosive power 
of Paul on this occasion (Acts 13:6-12) probably 
amazed Barnabas and revealed the tremendous energy 
of his fellow-laborer. There is no sign of resent- 
ment on the part of Barnabas as he sees his assistant 
take the lead. After all Paul is the pride of Barnabas, 
and he can rejoice that God has allowed him to bring 
to the front this great exponent of the faith. Luke 
quietly notes that "Paul and his company set sail from 
Paphos, and came to Perga in PamphyHa" (Acts 13: 
13). John Mark apparently disliked the new state of 
affairs, and went back to Jerusalem, but Barnabas went 
on with Paul. He was too great a man to break up the 
partnership because Paul was manifestly the greater 
and more useful preacher. "In nothing is the great- 
ness of Barnabas more manifest than in his recognition 
of the superiority of Paul and acceptance of a sec- 
ondary place for himself" (Furneaux, "Acts," p. 203). 
It was Paul who "stood up" in response to the invita- 
tion from the rulers of the synagogue to the "breth- 
ren" to speak in Antioch in Pisidia (Acts 1:3:1:5f.). 
"Many of the Jews and of the devout proselytes fol- 
lowed Paul and Barnabas" (13:43) when the syna- 
gogue broke up. On the next Sabbath Paul was 
again the speaker till the uproar came when "Paul and 
Barnabas spake out boldly" (13:46). So they stirred 
persecution against Paul and Barnabas (Acts 13:50). 
At Lystra Paul was the speaker again (14:9), with 
the result that the natives took Paul to be Mercury 

BARNABAS THE PREACHER'S FRIEND 45 

and Barnabas Jupiter, a tribute to the finer personal 
appearance of Barnabas, as well as to Paul's eloquence 
as ''the chief speaker." Here again Luke reflects the 
local atmosphere when he mentions ''Barnabas and 
Paul" (14:14). But Barnabas apparently maintained 
his serenity, and the two apostles came back to Antioch 
with a glorious report of God's blessing. The door 
of faith had been opened to the Gentiles (14:27). 

Vr. EXPONENT OF GENTILE FREEDOM 

It was a time of rejoicing in Antioch, and no doubt 
Paul's stature loomed larger in the minds of the 
Church there than before. When the Judaisers from 
Jerusalem appeared in Antioch with their abrupt de- 
mand that the Gentile Christians be circumcised after 
the custom of Moses (Acts 15:1) Paul and Barnabas 
took a firm stand against them. No doubt Paul re- 
vealed himself to the Church at Antioch as the real 
leader by his powerful exposition of liberty in Christ. 
This new appreciation of Paul appears in the appoint- 
ment of "Paul and Barnabas" with certain others to 
go to Jerusalem for a conference on this grave prob- 
lem (15:2). It is clear that the Greek Church at 
Antioch stood with Paul and Barnabas. In Jerusalem 
Barnabas nobly seconded the leadership of Paul with 
no sign of jealousy. It is here assumed that Acts 15 
and Galatians 2:1-10 refer to the same event. The 
point is still in dispute, but the best reconciliation of 
minor discrepancies lies in the broad parallel of the 
two reports. Luke gives only the public aspects of 
the meeting, while Paul makes use of the private con- 
ference of the leaders to prove his equality with the 

46 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

twelve. In Acts 2:130 "Barnabas and Saul" went to 
Jerusalem. In Acts 15:2, "Paul and Barnabas'* 
attended the conference as in Galatians, and Paul is 
evidently leader. In both reports (Acts 15 and Gal. 
2) Peter and James co-operate with Paul and Barna- 
bas. It shows Paul's wisdom that Barnabas spoke 
before he did at the second public meeting (Acts 15: 
12). In Jerusalem Barnabas had a great hold, and 
he had here befriended Paul. This appreciation of 
Barnabas is reflected in the decision of the conference, 
probably written by James, which speaks of "our be- 
loved Barnabas and Paul" (Acts 15:25), but Luke's 
narrative in verse 22 has Paul and Barnabas. Paul 
made no point of precedence. Barnabas stood by him 
I loyally in Jerusalem, and they won a common victory 
over the Judaisers. But in his own account Paul said: 
"to me and Barnabas" (Galatians 2:9). 

But in Antioch on their return things did not go 
entirely well. At first "Paul and Barnabas" taught 
on as before (Acts 15:35) after the season of rejoic- 
ing over the Gentile victory. Paul and Barnabas had 
been acknowledged by the Jerusalem leaders (Peter, 
James and John) as in charge of the work among the 
Gentiles, as they were at the head of the work among 
the Jews (Galatians 2:7-10). Paul did not admit that 
these "pillars" were above him and Barnabas. He 
had made the issue acute in Jerusalem by the presence 
of Titus, a Greek Christian, whose liberty was main- 
tained against pressure for a compromise. Peter and 
James spoke for Paul in Jerusalem. Later, so the 
chronology seems to run, Peter came to Antioch and 
followed the custom of Paul and Barnabas in his 

BARNABAS THE PREACHER'S FRIEND 47 

social life with the Gentile Christians there (Galatians 2: 
11-15). He ate with them. This was a long step for- 
ward for Peter, a Palestinian Jew, and the very issue 
on which he had been arraigned before in Jerusalem 
by the Judaisers (Acts 11:1-18). The reappearance 
of the Judaisers in Antioch with the threat to tell James 
about Peter and to have him up before the Church 
again quickly made a coward out of Peter. Social 
equality had not been passed upon by the Jerusalem 
conference. It was simply assumed here in Antioch. 
So Peter weakened and drew back. He was followed 
in this dissimulation (hypocrisy, Paul calls it) by "the 
rest of the Jews" till only Paul and Barnabas were 
left. And then one of the saddest things in Paul's life | 
happened. *'Even Barnabas was carried away by their I 
dissimulation." There is a tribute to Barnabas in this 
way of speaking of his defection. Paul was now alone, 
Paulics contra mundiim. But he did not waver. He 
spoke to Peter face to face, and seems to have won 
him back. Barnabas, of course, changed again to his 
old view. The breach was apparently quickly healed. 
But it is one of those things that can never be undone, 
once it has happened. Barnabas, like Peter, had 
flickered in this supreme crisis. The reins of leader- 
ship were, for the moment, left in Paul's hands alone. 
Paul could never quite forget that fact, nor could Bar- 
nabas nor could the church in Antioch. Paul was now 
undisputed leader of the Gentile Christians. But Bar- 
nabas had wrought nobly if he did falter for a moment 
when Paul and Peter called him to go different paths. 
Perhaps Barnabas "had never really thought out the 
principles involved, so as to be able to vindicate them 

48 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

when challenged" (Furneaux, ''Acts," p. 248). It is 
possible also that John Mark, who was apparently now 
in Antioch (Acts 15:37), took the side of Peter 
against Paul with resentful memories of Perga (Acts 
13:13), and so helped pull his cousin Barnabas away 
from Paul. It is plain that a sensitive situation exists 
in Antioch after Paul's triumph. There was plenty of 
explosive material at hand. 

VII. DEFENDER OF MARK's RIGHT TO A SECOND 
CHANCE 

Barnabas is true to his character as friend of the 
friendless to the end. Even in his inconsistent con- 
duct at Antioch one may be able to trace the course of 
his conduct. He was a conciliating spirit always. He 
befriended the Gentile Christians, but he wished not 
to offend the Jewish brethren. So he faced a policy 
of vacillation. Perhaps in Antioch Barnabas was a 
bit restive under Paul's leadership after the recent 
honors shown him in Jerusalem. But Paul was all 
the more anxious to smooth things over and to get 
back to normal relations with Barnabas. The old 
missionary hunger burned in Paul again, and he pro- 
posed to Barnabas (Acts 15:36-41) that they go back 
again and visit their old haunts in Cyprus and Galatia. 
Barnabas readily agreed, even though he was to start 
out this time as Paul's assistant, not as chief. But he 
made one suggestion, that they take along with them 
((TvvTrapa\a^€lv, aorist infinitive) John Mark, who be- 
gan the former tour with them. Instantly Paul took 
and held (ij^iov, imperfect) a position against that pro- 
posal. He could not bear the idea of having along 

BARNABAS THE PREACHER'S FRIEND 49 

(avvirapaXafi^aveLv, present infinitive, note) this man 
who had played the apostate (rdv aToaravTa) at Perga. 
Mark did not stick to the work then (ij,ri avveKOovTa 
avTols eis to epyov) and he might desert in a pinch 
again. Hippolytus calls Mark *'the man with the fin- 
ger wanting*"' (Ko\oPo5dKTv\os) because the Romans 
marked a deserter by cutting off the little finger. Paul's 
words stung Mark to the quick beyond a doubt, and 
all the more because of the truth in them. Probably 
Paul was indignant afresh at Mark for taking sides 
with Peter against him, and he disliked the suggestion 
of Barnabas all the more. The old sore has been 
rubbed again. There is more in the disagreement be- 
tween Paul and Barnabas than can be put into words. 
The "sharp contention" (irapo^vaixosj our "paroxysm") 
represented more than the conduct and character of 
John Mark. Barnabas now let loose the resentment 
at Paul's superseding him that he had smothered 
hitherto. Paul put into his resistance the passionate 
heat because of the dissimulation of Barnabas and of 
Mark. The "son of consolation" shows ordinary tem- 
per like other men. The apostle who later wrote the 
noblest hymn on love in existence (1 Corinthians 13) is 
unable to control his own bitter thoughts. The dis- 
pute has come between these two men who owe so 
much to each other. The very debt of each to the 
other made the parting all the harder to bear. And 
yet each was right and each was wrong, as is usually 
the case in a quarrel. Barnabas had himself but re- 
cently made a false step in his relations with Paul and 
Peter. He was not the man to say that John Mark 
should be thrown to the scrap-heap for his slip at 

50 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

Perga. A man is entitled to a chance to come back. 
No one of us is perfect, not even Paul. And yet Paul 
was unwilling to risk the work again with a man who 
had failed and had not yet made good. He demanded 
that he prove his mettle before he be trusted so much. 
There is no way to settle an issue like that. Paul no 
doubt had the best of the argument so far as logic 
goes, but Barnabas would not turn Mark down, not 
even for Paul. So they parted company, apparently 
abruptly. Barnabas took Mark with him and sailed 
away to Cyprus and drops out of Luke's narrative. 
It seems clear that the sympathy of the Church at 
Antioch is with Paul and Silas, who takes the place 
of Barnabas. Paul has completely ousted Barnabas 
in the affections of the Church at Antioch to which 
Barnabas had brought Paul. This is one of the 
tragedies of the ministry, that great men cannot always 
work together. But they can at least work separately. 
Often more work is thus accomplished. The world 
is wide and the work is pressing. Our hearts go with 
Barnabas in tender interest. One could wish that 
Luke had told us something of the closing years of 
Barnabas. Certainly he and Paul suffered because of 
the estrangement. There was no way to avoid that. 
But time heals many things. Neither of these great 
men was the man to cherish bitterness. We may be 
sure that Barnabas was not idle. He did a good turn 
by John Mark, as he had done by Paul. He helped to 
shape him for greater usefulness. When Mark ap- 
pears later with Peter (1 Peter 5:13) and Paul (Col. 
4:10; 2 Timothy 4:11), he is useful for ministering to 
the aged Paul. This change in Mark is largely due 

BARNABAS THE PREACHER'S FRIEND 51 

to Barnabas, who befriended the young preacher in his 
hour of crisis. It is a great gift to be able to pick up 
and to patch up men. Barnabas knew how to do it. 
When men differed, he had to make his choice. But 
the great work that he did for Christianity in befriend- 
ing Paul and Mark is a permanent contribution. That 
is his crown of glory, that and the Church at Antioch 
which was shaped by him and saved from the Judaisers 
for Paul's master hand. He began the missionary 
campaign that Paul carried to victory and that is still 
sweeping on over the earth. Paul clearly rejoiced in 
the later work of Barnabas, for he spoke kindly of 
him in 1 Corinthians 9:6. Luther and Calvin held 
that Paul refers to Barnabas in 2 Corinthians 8:18 f., 
"the brother whose praise in the gospel is spread 
through all the churches." This is pure conjecture, 
but it is plain that, like Paul, he supported himself 
while preaching, and had the same spirit of indepen- 
dent manhood. Christianity can never forget the work 
of. Barnabas even though he does not reveal the genius 
of Paul and John. He was a man for a critical period 
of early Christianity and helped to tide over the tran-. 
sition from the Jewish to the Gentile phase of Christian 
activity .^ 

CHAPTER III 

AQUILA AND PRISCILLA PARTNERS IN 
SERVICE 

"Loyalty" is a great word; according to Prof. 
Josiah Royce it is the greatest of all words. The 
World War made it shine with fresh splendor. Dis- 
loyalty is not only a vice, but a crime. Dr. John A. 
Hutton, of Glasgow, argues that "Loyalty" is "the ap- 
proach to faith." It is the dominant trait in John the 
Baptist's relation to Jesus (see my "John the Loyal"). 
It is the outstanding characteristic of Aquila and 
Priscilla in their relation to Paul. We are not told 
much about them, but what is given by Luke (Acts 
18:2, 18, 26) and Paul (1 Corinthians 16:19; Romans 16: 
3; 2 Timothy 4:19) sets this couple quite apart. "Aquila 
and Priscilla were, in St. Paul's eyes, people of impor- 
tance in the early Church" (J. E. Roberts, in Hast- 
ings's "Dictionary of the Apostolic Church"). Paul 
speaks of them lovingly as "my coworkers" ( toys 
ovvepyovs iJLov, Romans 16:3) in language that "shows 
that Prisca and Aquila occupied a different position 
from that of Paul's other coworkers" Weizsacker, 
"The Apostolic Age," vol. i., p. 394). He adds: 
"The Apostle distinctively set them side by side with 
himself. They had, indeed, from the beginning la- 
boured along with him in a pre-eminent manner, and 
after they had already attested their worth indepen- 

52 

AQUILA AND PRISCILLA 53 

dently.'* No group of Paul's friends would be com^ 
plete that did not include those two interesting per- 
sons whose lives evidently played a prominent part 
in the history of early Christianity. 

The manuscripts vary a good deal between the form 
Prisca and the diminutive Priscilla, both Latin. For 
the three passages in Acts the best manuscripts give 
Priscilla (the language of conversation), while the 
three in Paul's Epistle have Prisca, *'the more cour- 
teous and correct form of her name" (Furneaux, 
"Acts," p. 293). Both Aquila and Prisca are Roman 
names, though Luke expressly says that Aquila is a 
Jew of Pontus (Acts 18:2). There is no reason to 
think that Luke is mistaken on this point, because the 
name Pontius Aquila occurs in connection with the 
Pontian family of Rome (Cicero ad Fani., 10:33). 
There was a Jew of Pontus named Aquila in the sec- 
ond century a.d. who translated the Old Testament 
into Greek. It was common enough for Jews to have 
Roman names like Paul and Mark. Aquila could also 
have been a freedman, *'as the greater part of the Jews 
in Rome were freedmen" (Knowling, "Acts," p. 383; 
cf. Schuerer, "History of the Jewish People," div. ii., 
vol. ii., p. 234). So Ramsay holds: "Aquila was 
probably a freedman. The name does indeed occur as 
cognomen in some Roman families; but it was also 
a slave name, for a freedman of Maecenas was called 
(C. Cilnius) Aquila" ("St. Paul the Traveller," p. 
269). 

But it is not at all certain that Prisca (Priscilla) was 

64 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

a Jewess. She may have been. Both of them could 
have been freedmen. One of the oldest catacombs of 
Rome is the Cocmeterium Priscillce outside the Porta 
Salaria. De Rossi has shown that this cemetery 
''originates in the burying place of Acilius Glabrio and 
other members of the Acilian Jews" (Sanday and 
Headlam, "Romans," p. 419). *Triscilla" was a name 
that belonged to the Acilian Jews, as an inscription 
shows. So then both Aquila and Priscilla could have 
been freedmen of a member of the Acilian Jews. 
There is still another view. Plumptre ("Biblical 
Studies," p. 417) noticed that in four of the six places 
where their names appear the wife occurs first (Acts 
18:18, 26; Romans 16: 3; 2 Timothy 4:19). The usual 
theory is that this is due to the greater zeal, devotion, 
or ability of Priscilla. This may be true, probably 
was the case, but the New Testament says nothing 
about it. Hort ("Romans and Ephesians," pp. 12 f.) 
argues in favor of Plumptre's suggestion "that she was 
a Roman lady, of higher station than her husband, and 
that her position in Rome enabled her to render spe- 
cial services to the Church." Ramsay accepts this 
view also: "Probably Prisca was of higher rank than 
her husband, for her name is that of a good old Roman 
family" ("St. Paul the Traveller," p. 268). This 
view commends itself to me as the more probable in 
spite of the objections of Sanday and Headlam ("Ro- 
mans," p. 420) that it is hardly likely that a noble 
Roman lady would travel around with a Jewish hus- 
band engaged in mercantile or artisan work. That all 
depends. If she had accepted Judaism, like many edu- 
cated Roman women (c/. Josephus, "Antiquities," 

AQUILA AND PRISCILLA 55 

18:3, 5), she would do so, especially when both had 
become Christians. When in exile, besides, she would 
be cut off from her income in Rome. If she was a 
Roman patrician, she probably possessed considerable 
means and was able to be of real service to Paul when 
he was in Rome during his imprisonment, if she was 
really there at that time. We know from the inscrip- 
tions that Christianity did penetrate into other leading 
Roman families (Sanday and Headlam, "Romans," 
p. 420). 

But even so it may still be true that "Priscilla was 
a more active worker in the Christian Church than 
her husband. In favor of this view is the statement 
of Chrysostom (1:306 D, 177 A, 3:176, B, C) that 
it was Priscilla's careful expositions of 'the way of 
God' (Acts 18:26) that proved so helpful to 
Apollos" (Tasker, in Hastings's "One-Volume Dic- 
tionary of the Bible"). So Harnack ("Expansion of 
Christianity," vol. i, p. 79) speaks of "Prisca the 
missionary, with her husband Aquila." At any rate 
the unusual order of the wife before the husband must 
be accepted as original, though in Acts 18:26 the 
Western text has "Aquila and Priscilla." Harnack 
has shown that the Western or B text of "Blass" is 
"modified by an interpolator who objected to the too 
great prominence given to a woman, and has made 
the position of Priscilla less prominent" (Headlam, in 
Hastings's "Dictionary of the Bible"). Ramsay 
("Church in the Roman Empire," p. loi) notes that 
the Western text likewise omits Damaris in Acts 17: 
34. Ramsay thinks that this "order was, therefore, a 
conversational custom, familiar in the company among 

56 TYPEiS OF PREACHERS 

whom they moved; though it must have seemed odd 
to strangers in later generations" ("St. Paul the Trav- 
eller,'* p. 268). But Priscilla had a v^orthy and noble 
husband if she did excel him in some qualities. "They 
are always mentioned together, both in the Acts and 
in the Epistles, and they furnish the most beautiful 
example known to us in the apostolic age of the power 
for good that could be exerted by a husband and wife 
working in unison for the advancement of the gos- 
pel" (McGiffert, "The Apostolic Age," p. 428). She 
was the predominant personality, as is often the case, 
and so is to be classed with Lydia and the other women 
who labored with Paul in the gospel. She shared 
her husband's exile (Rackham, "Acts," p. 324) and 
thereby won her greatest sphere of usefulness for 
Christ. 

Harnack ("Mission and Expansion of Christianity,'* 
i., page 79) has argued that Aquila and Priscilla wrote 
the Epistle to the Hebrews, or, rather, that she wrote 
it with the aid of her husband. There is a curious 
interchange of "we" and "I" in the Epistle, but Paul 
shows the same literary habit. Harnack thinks that 
Priscilla's authorship explains the anonymity of the 
Epistle, since in the second century there was strong 
objection to the prominent position of women in the 
apostolic age. Dr. J. Rendel Harris accepts it and 
Marcus Dods says: "All that we know of Aquila seems 
to fit the conditions as well as any" (Expositor's Greek 
Testament, "Hebrews," p. 234). But, if Priscilla was 
a Roman, it hardly seems likely that she could have 
produced a book so Jewish and Alexandrian in style, 
more after the order of Apollos. Besides, the mas- 

AQUILA AND PRISCILLA 67 

culine singular participle ( BLT^yovnevov ) in Hebrews 1 1: 
32 would not suit Priscilla. But she was gifted enough 
for this or any other service. 

II. BOTH VICTIMS OF ROMAN HATRED OF THE JEWS 

Aquila is in Corinth, "lately come from Italy with 
his wife Priscilla, because Claudius had commanded 
all the Jews to depart from Rome" (Acts 18:2). 
Suetonius ("Claudius," 25) expressly says that "the 
Jews were expelled by Claudius for incessant riots 
under a ringleader Chrestus (Christus)." The Ro- 
mans could not distinguish between the pronunciation 
of the koine Greek e and i. There is like confusion 
in the manuscripts for "Christians" in Acts 11:26. 
Christus may have been the name of a Jew in Rome 
who caused the trouble, but it is likely that it is just 
the Roman failure to preserve the real name Christ. 
"Chrestus" in Greek is an adjective that means use- 
ful or worthy. If the reference in Suetonius is to 
Christ, then Christianity enters into the disturbance in 
some way. Perhaps the Jews and the few Christians 
there, converts at the great Pentecost, had some dis- 
agreement and Claudius ordered them all off as Jewish 
disturbers of the peace. The Jews had been brought 
to Rome by Pompey in B.100:61 and had been a con- 
stant cause of turbulence. Tiberius had actually sent 
away four thousand Jews from Rome to Sardinia 
with the hope that the malaria might kill them. How- 
ever, Dio Cassius (9:6) explains that Claudius did 
not actually drive the Jews out of Rome because they 
were too many, over twenty thousand, but he "for- 
bade them to hold the meetings enjoined by their 

68 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

laws.'* Perhaps Claudius tried to execute his decree 
and did do so to some extent and for a short time. 
Some of the Jews did flee, Aquila and Priscilla among 
them, though the ban was later lifted so that they 
could return {cf. Acts 28:17). So Paul found 
Jews in Rome. The exact date of the decree of 
Claudius is not known. It is given all the way from 
A.D. 49 to 52. Ramsay holds that a.d. 50 is the 
correct date ("St. Paul the Traveller," p. 254). On 
this showing this interesting couple did not arrive in 
Corinth more than six months before Paul came from 
Athens. It is curious how bitter race prejudice was 
between Jew and Gentile. In a.d. 41 a man named 
Heraclides was in many difficulties. Serapion writes 
to him: "Beware of the Jews" (/catlo-u BXeTre oaTov 
airb rcov ^lovdalcuv, B. G. H. IO79, 1:24). This scrap of 
papyrus throws light on the decree of Claudius just 
a few years later. Alas, hatred of the Jews has not 
yet disappeared from the earth. 

III. EARLY MEMBERS OF THE CHURCH IN ROME 

On this point one cannot be dogmatic, but it is dif- 
ficult to keep from having an opinion, though the 
material is not sufficient for positive knowledge. 
What is clear is that Aquila and Priscilla could tell 
Paul "of the events that had occurred in Rome at the 
action of Chrestus" (Ramsay, "St. Paul the Trav- 
eller," p. 255). We know that Paul later (Acts 19: 
2) announced a purpose to see Rome, and this plan 
may be due to Aquila and Priscilla. The silence of 
Luke in Acts 18, is argued both ways. It is strange, 
Knowling holds, that no mention is made of the con- 

AQUILA AND PRISCILLA 69 

version of Aquila and Priscilla if they were Christians 
when Paul met them. On the other hand, Rackham 
thinks that the ready inference is to be drawn that 
they were already Christians, since otherwise Luke 
would have mentioned their conversion and baptism 
as in the case of Lydia. The truth is that we do not 
know. Milligan (Hastings's ''Dictionary of the 
Bible," "Aquila") comes near the probable truth when 
he says: "The ready welcome which Aquila accorded 
to one whom the bulk of his fellow-countrymen viewed 
with such disfavor as Paul, inclines us to the belief 
that when he came to Corinth he had at least accepted 
the first principles of Christian faith, though his prog- 
ress and growth in it he doubtless owed to the apostle. 
If so, he and his wife may be ranked amongst the 
earliest members of the Christian Church at Rome; 
and it would be from them that Paul would learn those 
particulars regarding the state of that Church to which 
he afterwards refers in his Epistle (see Rom. i :8, 1:6: 
17-19)." Knowling admits the possibility that Jews 
from Rome were at the great Pentecost who could 
have carried the knowledge of Christ to the Eternal 
City, and that but for some leanings to the new faith 
Aquila and Priscilla would hardly have admitted Paul 
to their lodgings. Claudius thus played a great part 
in the life of Aquila and Priscilla in driving them to 
Corinth into the fellowship of Paul, who became the 
great friend of their whole lives. 

IV. COMRADESHIP WITH PAUL IN CORINTH 

Luke says of Paul that he came to A^quila and Pris- 
cilla and that, "because he was of the same trade with 

60 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

them, he abode with them, and they wrought; for by 
their trade they were tentmakers" (Acts 18:3). 
The word employed here by Luke for "of the same 
trade" (o/xdrex^'ov) is a classical word, though not in 
the Septuagint. Hobart (''Medical Language of St. 
Luke," p. 239) argues that this is a technical word 
for fellow physicians (so used by Dioscorides). At 
any rate there were trade guilds in plenty during the 
first century a.d. Edersheim says: "In Alexandria 
the different trades sat in the synagogue arranged into 
guilds; and St. Paul could have no difficulty in meet- 
ing in the bazaar of his trade with the like-minded 
Aquila and Priscilla (Acts 18:2, 3), with whom to 
find a lodging" ("Sketches of Jewish Social Life," p. 
89). It was the Jewish custom to teach all boys a 
manual trade, one that the great war has shown to be 
exceedingly wise for both boys and girls. Jesus was 
by trade a carpenter and Paul a tentmaker. Tent- 
making was a flourishing local industry in Tarsus. 
The rough goats' hair, called cilicium from Cilicia, was 
employed in making tents for which there was a great 
demand all over the East, as is still the case. This 
boy learned to make tents, to study philosophy at the 
University of Tarsus, and theology at the feet of 
Gamaliel in Jerusalem. Pontus, like Cilicia, was "a 
district with abundant pasturage for goats and num- 
bered tent-making amongst its industries" (Furneaux, 
"Acts," p. 292). So these two Jewish Christians were 
both tentmakers (cktivotoloI). It was hard to cut the 
rough cloth straight, but Paul learned it as he did the 
straight interpretation of God's Word (2 Timothy 2: 
15). Aquila and Priscilla were now working at this 

AQUILA AND PRISCILLA 61 

trade because they had been driven out of Rome and 
were now away from their income. Paul had already 
worked at his trade to support himself at Thessalonica 
(1 Thessalonians 2:9; 2 Thessalonians 3:8). Probably Aquila and 
Priscilla had opened a shop and they took Paul in as 
a partner in the business. At any rate Paul lived in 
their house (efieivev irap^ avroU) and they worked 
steadily at their business (rjpyd^ovTo, imperfect tense). 
Dr. Samuel Cox has a chapter on ''St. Paul a Work- 
ingman and in Want" in his ''Expositor's Note-Book/* 
pp. 419-438. But there was more than comradeship 
in 'trade between these choice spirits. He found also 
a Christian home which refreshed his soul after the 
cold indifference of Athens, and he "established a link 
with the Church in Rome" (Rackham, p. 329). Paul 
worked for his living with his own hands and preached 
as occasion came in the synagogue on the Sabbath and 
"tried to persuade (^Tret^ep) both Jews and Greeks" 
(Acts 18:4). This was his habit of independence 
(1 Corinthians 9:12, 15; 2 Corinthians 13:13). "No man should 
be able to say that he cared more for the fleece than 
for the flock" (Furneaux, p. 295). It was a blessed 
copartnership, and Aquila and Priscilla learned from 
Paul the art of winning souls to Christ and of train- 
ing them for his service. They were already expert 
tentmakers. They now became expert evangelists. 
Aquila and Priscilla step into the background when 
Timothy and Silas come from Thessalonica to Corinth 
(Acts 18:5). They brought so much help that Paul 
was able to preach more and make fewer tents awelx^ro 
T(j> \6yco), with the result that the Jews were soon 
aroused to anger by Paul's tremendous success. After 

6S TYPES OF PREACHERS 

some two years in Corinth, Aquila and Priscilla accom- 
pany Paul to Ephesus (Acts 18:21). Either Paul 
or Aquila had a vow which was absolved at Cenchrese 
and they went on. In the light of Acts 18:19 it 
seems as if Aquila and Priscilla sought to establish 
themselves in business in Ephesus and wished Paul to 
go in with them as in Corinth: "And he left them 
there; but he himself entered into the synagogue and 
reasoned with the Jews." The point is not clear, but 
Paul meant to go on to Csesarea and to Jerusalem 
(apparently) and then to Antioch (18:22). He 
planned, however, to come back to Ephesus and rejoin 
Aquila and Priscilla if it was God's will (18:21). 
So Aquila and Priscilla were left by Paul in a city 
with few, if any. Christians besides themselves. Thus 
they began in Corinth also. They would make tents 
as at Corinth and as Paul later did on his return to 
Ephesus: "Ye yourselves know that these hands min- 
istered unto my necessities, and to them that were 
with me" (Acts 20:34). So Paul spoke to the elders 
from Ephesus at Miletus of his work in Ephesus with 
Aquila and Priscilla. But we may be sure that Aquila 
and Priscilla would be on the lookout for every oppor- 
tunity to serve the cause of Christ. 

V. SKILL IN TRAINING A YOUNG PREACHER 

We do not know how long Paul was absent from 
Ephesus. Luke says that he spent "some time" in 
Antioch (Acts 18:23) before he started on the third 
missionary journey. Paul was certainly away some 
months, since he also "went through the region of 
Galatia and Phrygia, establishing all the disciples'* 

AQUILA AND PRISCILLA 63 

(18:23). He probably arrived at Antioch in the 
spring and at Ephesus in the autumn of a.d. 53 or 
54. Ramsay ("St. Paul the Traveller," p. 266) thinks 
October the probable month. It is clear that during 
Paul's absence Aquila and Priscilla would carry on 
their trade and do what they could to win converts to 
Christ. There was pretty clearly no church as yet 
in Ephesus. After Paul came back he preached for 
three months in the synagogue (Acts ig:Si.) till 
compelled to leave for the school of Tyrannus. Luke 
gives us only one item in the experience of Aquila and 
Priscilla as they did pioneer work during Paul's ab- 
sence. It is the visit of ApoUos to Ephesus and how 
Aquila and Priscilla took him in hand. Ramsay thinks 
that Luke records this incident "not so much for its 
own intrinsic importance as for the sake of rendering 
Paul's first letter to the Corinthians clear and intelli- 
gible. A contrast is drawn there between the more 
elaborate and eloquent style of Apollos and the simple 
gospel of Paul; and it is implied that some of the Co- 
rinthian brethren preferred the style and gospel of 
Apollos. The particulars stated here about Apollos 
have clearly been selected to throw light on the cir- 
cumstances alluded to, but not explained in the letter 
("St. Paul the Traveller," p. 267). Perhaps so. At 
any rate the passage serves that purpose for us whether 
or no it was the specific design of Luke. I think that 
the incident has great value and interest in itself both 
in the career of a man of unusual gifts like Apollos 
and in the attitude of Aquila and Priscilla toward this 
remarkable young minister who has suddenly come 
across their path. Ephesus was one of the great cities 

e4i TYPES OF PREACHERS 

of the world and men came thither from everywhere 
with all sorts of beliefs (Oriental cults, Hellenism, 
Judaism). The great Temple of Diana was the pride 
and glory of Ephesus. Aquila and Priscilla laid the 
foundations for Christianity in Ephesus. They were 
naturally concerned about everything that affected the 
cause. They still worshiped in the synagogue with 
the Jews and doubtless spoke to the Jews and to the 
"God- fearers" among the Gentiles who came. Apollos 
of Alexandria also spoke in the synagogue (Acts 1:8: 
26). He did it with such boldness, novelty, and power 
that a real sensation was made. He preached Jesus, 
and yet not precisely as Aquila and Priscilla Had 
learned him from Paul. They saw at once that such 
a man would do great good or great harm. He could 
not be ignored. He must be an ally or an opponent. 
It is a great gift to be able to judge men. It was clear 
that Apollos with all his Alexandrian philosophy and 
eloquence was right on the main things in Christianity 
as far as he went. He still tarried at the place held by 
John the Baptist. He needed instruction rather than 
denunciation. Christian leaders have not always 
known how to treat a new voice that begins to inter- 
pret Christ in a new day. Some go wild over the 
novelty of manner or the very defects of the man and 
exaggerate these into error or eddies of truth. Others 
fiercely rail at the newcomer for his theological short- 
comings and vagaries and try to drive the strange voice 
away. Nowhere is more wisdom required than in the 
training of preachers both young and old. Aquila and 
Priscilla saved Apollos for the cause of Christ by 
wisely leading him into fuller knowledge of Christ. It 

AQUILA AND PRISCILLA 65 

is not always easy to teach a gifted man and to correct 
a sensitive man's defects. Priscilla and Aquila did it 
privately and Priscilla probably did the most of it 
with a woman's deftness and adroitness. It was a 
noble service to render and points the way for us all 
today when scholarship and Christianity are not al- 
ways harmonious. There is a middle ground between 
heresy and obscurantism. The cure for error is more 
truth. Apollos erred by defect, but he was eager to 
know more. Roberts (Hastings's "Dictionary of the 
Apostolic Church") raises the question whether the 
elementary and chaotic state of things in Ephesus at 
this stage did not make Aquila and Priscilla more than 
willing to urge Apollos to pass on to Corinth, where 
his philosophical turn would have a riper audience. 
Something is to be said for this view, though one 
doubts if they were uneasy that the eloquent Alexan- 
drian might overshadow them in Ephesus. Ramsay 
is puzzled as to how the twelve mistaken disciples of 
the Baptist had escaped the knowledge of Apollos and 
Aquila and Priscilla before Paul came ("St. Paul the 
Traveller," p. 270), But Ephesus was a large city 
and had many elements in its population. 

VI. MAKING THEIR HOME A CENTRE OF CHURCH LIFE 

When Paul writes to Corinth he says: "Aquila and 
Priscilla salute you much in the Lord, with the church 
that is in their house" (1 Corinthians 16:19). Thus we 
know that a church was established in Ephesus before 
Paul writes this letter and that one of the meeting 
places was the home of Aquila and Priscilla. It was 
the habit of this noble couple. They gathered Chris- 

66 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

tians to their home. When Paul writes to Rome he 
sends salutations to the church in the home of Aquila 
and Priscilla (16:5). The disciples had to worship 
where they could, in synagogue, school, home. This 
couple used their means to make a home for the fol- 
lowers of Christ. It was a primitive arrangement, 
but it had some advantages. It carried worship into 
the home, and that is a great blessing. Family wor- 
ship is now a rare spectacle. What would Christianity 
have done in the first century but for access to homes 
like those of Mary in Jerusalem, Cornelius in Csesarea, 
Lydia in Philippi, Justus in Corinth, Aquila and Pris- 
cilla in Ephesus and Rome? There were probably 
other such meeting places for the Christians in 
Ephesus and Rome {cf. Romans 1:6:1:4f.). But this 
^!tem shows that they did their work in Ephesus well. 
It requires more courage to bring Christ into the home 
than to attend church. The presence of Christ in the 
home comes closer to our bosoms and touches our busi- 
ness life. If our homes were centers of active Chris- 
tian influence, a revolution would come in the world. 

VII. RISKING THEIR LIVES FOR PAUL 

In Romans 16:4 Paul speaks of Priscilla and 
Aquila "who for my life laid down their necks." The 
language is bold and picturesque. Literally it means 
that they laid back their necks {t6v eavrdv rpaxn^ov 
iireOriKav) for the ax of the executioner. It is prob- 
ably not to be taken literally any more than Paul's 
language about fighting with wild beasts at Ephesus 
(1 Corinthians 15 :32). These wild beasts were men like the 
mob that gathered in the amphitheater at Ephesus and 

AQUILA AND PRISCILLA 67 

clamored for Paul's blood. They were like the beasts 
in the gladiatorial arena. Paul was not allowed by 
his friends to go to this gathering of the mob, but it 
is quite possible that Aquila and Priscilla were caught 
in the maelstrom of their rage when they seized Gains 
and Aristarchus, "PauFs companions in travel" (Acts 
19:29). Paul was so indignant at this wanton act 
that he wanted to go and face the mob. It took the 
disciples and the Asiarchs tO' hold him back (19: 
3of.). It is possible that at this juncture, as Paul was 
living with Aquila arid Priscilla, they volunteered to 
go and face these wild beasts and try to dissuade them 
from their murderous intents toward Paul, just as 
courageous spirits have stood before a mob engaged 
in the crime of lynching and endeavored to restore 
them to reason. At any rate Aquila and Priscilla took 
their lives in their hands and risked all **for my life" 
(uTTcpr^s ^ux^sjuou). They were ready to die to save 
Paul's life. This great sacrificial act Paul could never 
forget. It set Aquila and Priscilla apart among Paul's 
friends. They were henceforth knit together by this 
blood bond. The fact that they escaped with their 
lives in no wise decreased Paul's sense of obligation to 
them for their heroic deed. It was loyalty to the limit 
and Paul cherished the memory of their courage. 

VIII. GOOD TRAVELLING CHRISTIANS 

The last mention of Prisca and Aquila by Paul is in 
2 Timothy 4:9. Timothy is in Ephesus and is re- 
quested by Paul to salute this devoted couple. It has 
been objected that for this and other reasons Romans 
16 does not belong to that Epistle, but should be 

68 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

added to the Epistle to the Ephesians or to a lost 
Epistle. It is said that the life of Aquila and Priscilla 
is pictured as too nomadic — now in Rome, now in 
Corinth, now in Ephesus, now in Rome, now in 
Ephesus. But Lightfoot ("Biblical Essays," p. 299) 
replies that a nomadic life was precisely the character- 
istic of the Jews of that day. Paul's own life is a 
case in point. We know why Aquila and Priscilla left 
Rome for Corinth and Corinth for Ephesus. It is not 
hard to see why they would be glad to go back to Rome 
when the way was clear. They may have returned to 
Ephesus on a mission for Paul. Their migratory 
habits furnish presumptive evidence for the integrity 
of Romans (Tasker, Hastings's "One- Volume Dic- 
tionary of the Bible"). That Paul had so many ac- 
quaintances and friends in Rome before he went there 
himself is not strange. Everybody went to Rome 
sometime or other who could manage it. The travel- 
ling habits of Jews and others explains the rest. Paul 
had met these people here and there. They are now 
in Rome. As to Ephesians we know that it is a circu- 
lar letter to several churches in Asia and not designed 
for Ephesus alone. Priscilla and Aquila were Paul's 
"fellow workers in Christ Jesus" whether in Corinth, 
Ephesus, or Rome. Paul is grateful to them, but many 
others also feel the same way, "all the churches of the 
Gentiles" in fact (Romans 16:4). Here we catch a 
glimpse of the missionary zeal of this couple. They 
were known and loved, Paul says, through Gentile 
Christendom. They were great travelers, but they 
took Christ with them wherever they went. Like 
Abraham of old, they set up an altar to the Lord in 

AQUILA AND PRISCILLA 69 

every city. It is a discredit to many that they are not 
good traveling Christians. Our modern globe-trotters 
care much more for sight-seeing than for hunting up 
disciples of Jesus in out-of-the-way places. In every 
city in America there are thousands of people who 
were active Church members in the country or town 
before they moved to the big city. Now they wander 
from church to church or drop out entirely. They 
do not carry with them the same activity for Christ 
that they displayed at home. Place it to the credit of 
Aquila and Priscilla that they made a business of their 
religion. It was not an appendage to be left off in 
traveling. There took Christ with them all the time. 
Harnack thinks that this was chiefly due to Priscilla, 
whom he considers a sort of female apostle in her 
zeal. "Plainly the Avoman was the leading figure of 
the two, so far as regards Christian activity at least. 
She was a fellow laborer of St. Paul — i, e., a mission- 
ary — and she could not take part in missionary work 
or in teaching, unless she had been inspired and set 
apart by the Spirit. Otherwise, St. Paul would not 
have recognized her. She may be claimed as r\ 
aTTOGToKoSf although St. Paul has not given her this 
title ('The Mission and Expansion of Christianity," 
ii., p. 66). At any rate, it is easy to see how useful 
to Paul and to the cause of Christ Priscilla and Aquila 
became. They were welcome visitors anywhere in the 
world where Jesus was loved. They could ply their 
trade and push on the kingdom of Christ, fine speci- 
mens of lay preachers, business people who were thor- 
oughly independent as to their own support and yet 
who made their lives count tremendously for the work 

70 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

of Christ. They were self-supporting missionaries 
who rejoiced in the privilege of giving all to Christ. 
They were rich in their friendships and in their serv- 
ice. They enriched the lives of thousands and en- 
deared themselves to Paul, who lived with them two 
years in Corinth and three years in Ephesus and who 
had tested their love for Christ to the core. They 
carried their business sense and social prestige into 
the service of Christ and employed both as weapons 
in the warfare which they waged for righteousness. 

CHAPTER IV 
JAMES THE MAN OF POISE 

I. JAMES THE BROTHER OF JESUS 

Paul refers to "J^^^^s the Lord's brother" (Gal. 
1:19). Peter sent a message "to James and to the 
brethren" (Acts 12:17). Jude describes himself as 
the "brother of James" (Jude i). The author of the 
Epistle of James terms himself "James, a servant of 
God and of the Lord Jesus Christ" (James 1:1). 

It is evident that we have here one and the same 
man and that he is not James, the son of Zebedee and 
the brother of John, slain by Herod Agrippa I (Acts 
12:1, 2), and not one of the twelve apostles. There 
is no reasonable doubt, therefore, that in Acts 12, 15, 
21 we are dealing with the author of the Epistle, the 
brother of Jesus. 

Scholars disagree as to what is meant by the term 
"brother." The natural meaning is that he is the 
son of Joseph and Mary, the eldest of the younger 
brothers and sisters of Jesus mentioned in the Gospels 
(Mark 6:3; Matthew 13:56). The names of the four 
brothers are given (James, Joses, Judas, Simon). 
Since Jesus was not the actual son of Joseph, James 
was the half brother of Jesus. 

Some hold that these brothers and sisters of Jesus 
were step-brothers and sisters, children of Joseph by 
a former marriage. Others contend that brother and 

71 

72 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

lister really here only means "cousin." There is a 
tull discussion of the whole matter in Mayor's "Com- 
mentary on James" and a brief one in my "Practical 
and Social Aspects of Christianity." I hold that James 
was the son of Joseph and Mary. 

II. BLINDED BY THE LIGHT 

It seems that at first James and the other brothers 
of Jesus were proud of his work at Cana for they were 
in frank fellowship for a while in Capernaum (John 
2:12). There was apparently no estrangement at this 
time (Patrick, "James the Lord's Brother," page 46). 

We are not able to trace the origin of the suspicion 
and distrust that finally arose in the Nazareth home. 
Mary understood the destiny of Jesus, but the brothers 
and sisters probably reflected the popular resentment 
in Nazareth on the occasion of his visit there (Luke 
4:16-31). At any rate they appear by and by to think 
that Jesus is "beside himself" (Matthew 12 :46f.; Luke 
SiiQf.) and wish to take him home. 

The Pharisees had openly charged that Jesus was 
in league with the devil and even Mary for the mo- 
ment feared that the excitement had unbalanced him. 
Later the brothers of Jesus offered cynical advice to 
Jesus about his Messianic work (John 7:5-10), advice 
that he took pains to disregard. 

It is plain, therefore, that Jesus was misunderstood 
in the home circle at Nazareth, though his mother was 
loyal to the core and to the end. 

It is not unusual for those who live at the foot of a 
mountain to take little interest in the glory and gran- 
deur of the peak. Contemporaries of the great are 

JAMES THE MAN OF POISE T® 

proverbially unable to gauge rightly the standing of 
the men or their age. We see but one section of the 
facts and are too close to the mountain to see its true 
perspective. The flies at night beat their lives out 
against the electric light, blinded by the light. The 
Light of the world shaded his light in the home circle 
beyond a doubt. 

There was no posing and no professionalism, but 
James knew Jesus as his elder brother, the carpenter, 
and probably was unable to see what it was that sud- 
denly lifted him to the place of a rabbi, and a prophet, 
and miracle worker and finally of the long-expected 
Messiah. One need not be unduly severe upon James 
to see how the problem puzzled him. 

III. WON TO THE LIGHT 

Evidently James was drawn to Jerusalem by the 
events of the Passion Week. Luke calmly notes that' 
the brothers of Jesus with their mother form part of 
the goodly company that meet in the upper room and 
wait for the promise of the Father (Acts i :1:4). 

Evidently a complete change has come over the atti- 
tude of James. Paul explains how it came to pass by 
the appearance of the risen Christ to James (i Cor. 
15 -.7). We have no details of that meeting, probably 
in the city somewhere, though it may have been in 
Nazareth. 

But James was not a man to hold out against the 
facts. Undoubtedly he preferred to believe in his 
brother as the Messiah and Lord if the facts justified 
him in doing so. He probably felt keenly the shame of 
the Cross, for Jesus had died as a condemned criminal. 

74* TYPES OF PREACHERS 

It required a piercing ray of light to drive away the fog 
of doubt and distress from the mind of James. We 
may be sure that Jesus dealt tenderly with James as 
he did with Thomas. The position of James was dif- 
ficult. Like Nicodemus at first he could not compre- 
hend the new ideas of the Kingdom. Now after the 
death of Jesus it all seemed like a wild dream that 
was over. 

Perhaps James grieved most because of the anguish 
and disappointment of his mother. But Jesus knows 
how to touch the mainspring of each heart whether it 
be Nathanael, Thomas, James, or Saul. Dale, indeed, 
thinks that James was converted before Jesus mani- 
fested himself to him ("Epistle of James," page 5). 
Mayor ("Commentary," page xxxvii) is disposed to 
believe part of the legend of Jerome about James being 
at the last Passover meal. We do not need to fill out 
the story. James saw Jesus. Henceforth he called 
himself a "slave of the Lord Jesus Christ." He was 
in the upper room with the hundred and twenty and 
was at home with the disciples. 

IV. THE LEADERSHIP OF CHARACTER 

One may wonder why James was not chosen to suc- 
ceed Juda^s instead of Matthias. His kinship to Jesus 
would naturally give him prominence, but James had 
not companied with the disciples from the first (Acts 

1:122). 

And yet we soon see James in the lead in the Jeru- 
salem church. Paul singles him out as one that he saw 
on his visit to Peter (Gal. i :1:8, 19). Even Peter on 
his release from prison sends a message to "James and 
the brethren" (Acts 12:17). 

JAJNIES THE MAN OF POISE 75 

At the Jerusalem conference (Acts 15:1-35) James 
presides, makes the closing address, and writes the de- 
cree of freedom for the Gentiles. Paul in Galatians 
2 19 recognizes James as one of the pillars of the church 
in Jerusalem on a par with Peter and John. On the 
occasion of Paul's last visit to Jerusalem James is still 
the leader of the church there (Acts 21: 17-26). 

There is no doubt about the fact of the leadership 
of James. He came to hold the chief position in the 
Jerusalem church whether a chief elder, or pastor, or 
apostle. 

It is not clear what title he had. At first he prob- 
ably won his way by force of character. He was a 
man of mark as the brother of Jesus, but so were the 
other brothers of Jesus now in the church. James 
forged ahead by sterling qualities that fitted him for 
the part in Jerusalem. 

After the death of Stephen and the conversion of 
Saul, the twelve apostles were increasingly absent from 
Jerusalem in their work of evangelisation. James was 
regarded as a thorough Jew and leaned to the Pales- 
tinian outlook rather than to that of the Hellenistic 
Jews like Stephen and Barnabas. His conservatism 
won their confidence when the peril of Gentile Chris- 
tianity first appeared. The party of the circumcision 
looked to James to put a stop to what Peter had done 
up at Csesarea (Acts 11:1-18). 

V. A MAN OF PRACTICAL WISDOM 

He came to be called James the Just, but his Epistle 
reveals him as James the Wise. The date of the 
Epistle is in dispute. In general, one may say that 

76 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

it was written before the Judalsing controversy arose 
(before 50 a. d.) or after it died down in the second 
century (M. Jones, ''The New Testament in the Twen- 
tieth Century," page 321). 

Ropes (''International Critical Commentary,'* page 
51) thinks that the writer's smooth Greek style makes 
it unlikely that it was written by James the Lord's 
brother, though it probably belongs to the period 60 
to 70 A. D. But the vernacular kolvt] was a flexible 
tool and responded to the personal equation. 

There is no allusion to the points at issue between 
Paul and the Judaisers. This is all the more striking 
since James employs some of the very words in de- 
bate between them (faith, works, justification). But 
he fails to touch what Paul has in mind. "Paul is 
looking at the root; James is looking at the fruit. Paul 
is talking about the beginning of the Christian life; 
James is talking about the continuance and consum- 
mation. With Paul, the works he renounces precede 
faith and are dead works. With James, the faith he 
denounces is apart from works and is a dead faith" 
(Hayes, "International Standard Bible Encyclo- 
paedia"). 

James writes in the atmosphere of the Sermon on 
the Mount and is not thinking of the developed the- 
ology of Paul that was sharpened by the Judaising 
controversy. Both believe in faith as the way of sal- 
vation, both believe in works as proof of faith. 

James in his Epistle perceives echoes of the teaching 
of Jesus. He has many figures of speech like those 
of Jesus. He was in very truth much like Jesus. It 
is not improper "to say that both had a common inheri- 

JAMES THE MAN OF POISE 7T 

tance from Mary their mother. Hayes notes also that 
James was called a just man as was Joseph his father 
(Matthew 1 119). They breathed the same home atmos- 
phere. 

It is possible that some of the aphorisms of James 
come from Mary. At any rate his Epistle is the chief 
wisdom book of the New Testament. It is not ab- 
stract philosophy, but practical wisdom applied to 
actual conditions in private and social life. The 
Epistle is modern in its treatment of cleanness of per- 
sonal living and justice between employer and em- 
ploye. Sociological problems are boldly faced and 
are solved in the spirit of Christ and of human brother- 
hood. One can find in the parables and sayings of 
Jesus the same courageous fairness that James dis- 
plays. Pungent paradox and crisp epigram occur in 
the teachings of Jesus and of James. 

It has often been noted that the speech of James 
and letter to Antioch in Acts 15 closely resemble in 
style the Epistle of James. He was clearly a man of 
ability, of poise, of spiritual reality, of energy, of lead- 
ership. He knew how to meet actual conditions and 
to apply the gospel to the life of his time. It was a 
great thing for the church in Jerusalem to have as pas- 
tor such a man. No one was so well qualified as he 
to write a message to Jewish Christians at large con- 
cerning the evils that threatened their Christian life. 
No man's words would carry more weight in the dec- 
ade between 40 and 50 a. d. when he probably wrote 
his book of wisdom. 

78 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

VI. JEW, BUT NOT JUDAISER 

It is probable that the reactionary party in the Jeru- 
salem church claimed James as one of them. We 
know what they did when they appeared in Antioch 
after the Jerusalem conference and attacked Peter for 
his social commingling with the Greek Christians there 
(Galatians 2:11-14). 

It is possible, of course, that James may have dis- 
approved of this social freedom on the part of Jewish 
Christians, though he was opposed to the Judaisers in 
their controversy with Paul. But the fact that James 
expressly disclaims (Acts 15:24) responsibility for or 
connection with the attack of the Judaisers on Paul 
and Barnabas at Antioch makes even that unlikely. 
Probably James had kept quiet at the time when Peter 
was arraigned by the party of the circumcision (Acts 
I :i-1:8) and when the controversy first arose at Anti- 
och. He was not a man to take a position rashly. 

But, if the Judaisers had counted on James, they 
were sadly disappointed. Paul tells us how he made 
certain that James and Peter and John were not led 
astray by the Judaisers (Galatians 2:1-10). There is a 
certain amount of heat in Paul's vigorous narrative 
which is written to prove his equality with and inde- 
pendence of the twelve apostles. The vehemence is 
partly due, at any rate, to the conduct of the Judaisers 
in Galatia. And yet in the private conference that 
Paul had with the leaders in Jerusalem there was de- 
mand on the part of some of the timid brethren that 
Paul yield in the case of Titus, the Greek brother, 
whom he had brought with him. If so, they would 

JAMES THE MAN OF POISE 79 

agree for Paul to have freedom for the other Gentile 
Christians. It is not said by Paul that James, or Peter 
or John, took that view and v^ished Titus to be cir- 
cumcised. But compromise was suggested by some. 
In the end Peter, James, and John shook hands with 
Paul and Barnabas as their equals in authority and 
agreed to full Gentile liberty. 

There is a trace of irritation in Paul's tone of refer- 
ence to these * 'pillars." It is possible that they held 
back from openly taking Paul's side till they had 
heard the whole story. Paul makes it clear that he 
does not consider that their agreement with him made 
his cause one whit more right than it was before.i 
Still, he was glad to have the open support of the 
Jerusalem leaders. 

In the open conference after this private discussion 
the schedule went through all right. Peter cham- 
pioned the cause of Paul and Barnabas. James spoke 
last and with convincing force showed by the Scrip- 
tures how the Gentiles were included in the plan of 
God. He suggested that the Gentile Christians take 
pains to avoid idolatry, impurity, and murder or blood 
(according to the Bezan text). But he was wholly 
opposed to placing the yoke of Jewish ceremonialism 
upon the necks of the Gentile Christians. It is small 
wonder that the Jerusalem church voted unanimously 
with Paul and Barnabas after such a deliverance from 
James, the president of the conference. 

James appears in the finest light on this occasion 
and rendered a great service to the cause of spiritual 
freedom for all time. He was cautious and prudent, 
but reliable in a pinch. He had the courage to stand 

80 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

up boldly for the evangelical faith in the teeth of the 
Judaisers who had counted upon him to lead their 
forces against Paul. If he had done so, Christianity- 
would at once have divided into Jewish and Gentile 
factions. The crisis was averted by the fact that 
James stood with Paul. 

VII. HIS FATEFUL ADVICE TO PAUL 

Montgomery (Hastings's "Dictionary of the Apos- 
tolic Church") thinks that James merely approved the 
action with which Paul was greeted on his last visit to 
Jerusalem (Acts 21 :1:7-26). Who the spokesman was 
is not clear, though James himself (Rackham) would 
be the natural man. The elders had met at the house 
of James (irpos 'Id/ccb/3oj'2i :1:8) to pay their respects to 
Paul. Probably the apostles were all absent from 
Jerusalem. 

It is not necessary to regard the advice given Paul 
as a rebuke to Paul. The implication is plain that 
James and the elders did not believe the accusation of 
the Judaisers circulated so diligently and persistently 
(dinned into people's ears, KaTrjxvOwo.5:21 :2i) that Paul 
taught Jewish Christians not to observe the customs 
of the fathers and taught apostasy from Moses by the 
Jews. Furneaux thinks that "the whole tone of the 
narrative implies that Paul was coldly received.** I 
do not see it that way, for Luke expressly says that 
"the brethren received us gladly" (21 :1:7). 

The company that thus greeted Paul so heartily was 
probably small in comparison with the body of the 
church, but "St. Paul found himself a brother amongst 
brethren" (Knowling, "Commentary" in loco). The 

JAMES THE MAN OF POISE 81 

spirit of the formal meeting of the elders on the next 
day was cordial and friendly. 

We must bear in mind that Paul had come to Jeru- 
salem this time with a heavy heart and against the 
advice of many friends. He probably observed due 
caution on his arrival (Hort, "J^^^-istic Christianity," 
page io6). (Acts 21:4, 11-14). Paul went from a 
strong sense of duty (20:22-24). He must finish his 
course and face the issue in Jerusalem even if it meant 
his death (21 :1:3). 

He had long seen the gathering cloud in Jerusalem. 
The Judaisers had not lived up to the agreement of 
the Jerusalem conference. They had dogged Paul's 
steps and injured his work in Galatia, Achaia, Mace- 
donia, Asia. They had persistently misrepresented 
Paul's attitude. He had fought for and had won lib- 
erty for Gentile Christians from the burden of Jewish 
ceremonialism. He had held to the moral observances 
of the moral law as a proof of conversion, but had 
refused to impose Moses on the Gentiles as a means 
of salvation. He had not waged war on the Jewish 
Christians. He was one himself and felt at perfect 
liberty to observe the Mosaic rites. 

In fact, Paul had celebrated the Passover at Philippi 
(Acts 20 :6) and had made a point to get to Jerusalem 
in time for Pentecost (20:16). He had come to bring 
alms to the Jewish Christians from the Gentile Chris- 
tians of Achaia, Asia, Macedonia, Galatia to show 
their love and to cement the bonds between Jewish 
and Gentile Christians so as to avoid a schism (Rom. 
15:22-33). 

It was proposed that Paul be seen in the temple 

82 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

offering sacrifices and paying for them. Actions speak 
louder than words. If the Jerusalem disciples see 
Paul in the Temple offering sacrifices and paying the 
charges of the four brethren who are discharging a 
vow, that will be the end of all controversy on the 
point of Paul's real teaching. 

Was the advice of James wise or unwise? The 
way to answer that question is to keep clear in one's 
mind the purpose of the proposal. The object of the 
advice was to prove to the rank and file of the Jerusa- 
lem church that the Judaisers had misrepresented 
Paul's attitude toward Jewish Christians. 

Did the plan accomplish its purpose? There is no 
evidence that it did not. To be sure, trouble grew 
out of the execution of the plan, but not from the 
Judaisers and not from the Jerusalem Christians. 

Paul delivered the alms that he had brought to the 
church and spent a whole week in the fulfillment of 
the sacrificial offerings (Acts 21 \2y^. It would seem 
that the full purpose of the proposal was attained. In 
all the entanglements that follow no trouble comes from 
the Jerusalem church or from the Judaisers. It would 
seem, therefore, that the advice was sound and wise. 
The peril of schism was averted. The reinstatement 
of Paul in the confidence of the Jerusalem church was 
apparently complete. The attack that was made on 
Paul while engaged in worship in the Temple (Acts 
21: 1 3-22) came from Jews of Ephesus (Asia) who 
had hated Paul there and who were angered by seeing 
him in Jerusalem (not the Temple) in company with 
Trophimus, a Greek Christian of Ephesus. 

It was Jewish hate that exploded against Paul in 

JAMES THE MAN OF POISE SS 

the Temple, an echo of the riot in Ephesus. This 
attempt to lynch Paul by the Jews was made while Paul 
was finishing the proposal of James, but it might have 
come anyhow on some other occasion. It had no nec- 
essary connection with what Paul was doing. In fact, 
he was in the very act of honoring the Temple when 
these Asian Jews accused him of dishonoring it. We 
may well decide, therefore, that James did not lose 
his reputation for wisdom and for sincere friendship 
towards Paul by the outcome of his advice. 

VIII. THE VICTIM OF JEWISH HATE 

And James himself, like Paul, was to fall a victim 
of the very Jews whom he so sincerely loved and tried 
to help. We may pass by the highly colored story of 
Hegesippus, in Eusebius, that James was hurled from 
the pinnacle of the Temple to his death because he re- 
fused to renounce and denounce Jesus at the demand 
of the scribes and Pharisees. But Josephus ("Antiq- 
uities," XX; IX :i) has a sober narrative of the death 
of James. 

The testimony of Josephus is no longer pushed 
lightly aside. Festus was dead and Albinus had not 
yet arrived. So Ananias (son of the Annas of the 
Gospels) assembled the Sanhedrin "and he brought 
before it the brother of Jesus who is called Christ 
(his name was James) and some others, and delivered 
them to be stoned, on a charge of being transgressors 
of the law." 

And this w^as the treatment accorded the Jewish 
Christian who was so strict a Jew that the Judaisers 
had claimed him as belonging to them. Hegesippus 

84. TYPES OF PREACHERS 

says of his pious exercises: *'His knees became hard 
like a camel's because he was always kneeling in the 
Temple, asking forgiveness for the people." 

The Jews, the rich Jews (Pharisees and Sadducees), 
had killed the righteous one (James 5 :6), the brother 
and Lord of James. They likewise killed James the 
Just (Righteous) in a fit of passion because of his 
love for and loyalty to Jesus. 

Stephen was the first martyr who followed in the 
steps of Jesus. Many quickly followed in his train. 
James, the son of Zebedee, soon drank his cup of death 
(Acts 1 2- 1, 2). In due time James, the brother of 
Jesus, took his place among these immortal heroes of 
the faith. He was married (1 Corinthians 9 :5), but we know 
nothing beyond the fact of his marriage. His per- 
sonality stands out in bold outline among the great 
figures of early Christianity. 

CHAPTER V 

PHILEMON THE MAN WITH A SOCIAL 
PROBLEM 

There is a peculiar modernness about the problems 
raised by Paul's Letter to Philemon. Professor Frank 
Granger showed in the September (1920) Expositor 
that early Christianity faced the chasm between master 
and slave and sought to bridge it. He rightly insists on 
the use of the word "slave" for bovKos in the New Testa- 
ment. There has been a curious squeamishness in the 
use of this word in modern English versions of the 
New Testament. Professor Granger sees clearly also 
that Paul's words, addressed to slaves, do not apply in 
all respects to modern workmen. It is time to make a 
fresh study of the whole subject. 

I. THE LETTER TO PHILEMON NOT AN EPISTLE 

Deissmann is right in contending that "Paul's letter 
to Philemon is no doubt the one most clearly seen to 
be a letter. Only the color-blindness of pedantry 
could possibly regard this delightful little letter as 2 
treatise *0n the Attitude of Christianity to Slavery.' 
In its intercession for a runaway slave it is exactly 
parallel to the letter, quoted above (pp. 205-6), from 
the Papas of Hermupolis to the officer Abinnseus^ 
Read and interpreted as a letter this unobtrusive relic 

85 

86 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

from the age of the first witnesses is one of the most 
valuable self -revelations that the great apostle has 
left us: brotherly feeling, quiet beauty, tact as a man 
of the world — all these are discoverable in the letter" 
(**Light from the Ancient East," p. 226). It cannot be 
admitted that Paul's other writings are ''letters" in 
the same sense that Deissmann shows to be true of 
the one to Philemon. "The letters of Paul are not 
literary; they are real letters, not epistles; they were 
written by Paul not for the public and posterity, but 
for the persons to whom they are addressed. Almost 
all the mistakes that have ever been made in the study 
of St. Paul's life and work have arisen from the neg- 
lect of the fact that his writings are non-literary and 
letter-like in character" (ibid, p. 225). And Deiss- 
mann has made another mistake in trying to make 
all of Paul's epistles to be of the same mold. We 
do not have fo think that Paul was thinking of pos- 
terity. He certainly was not posing. He wrote to 
meet immediate need by applying the principle of 
Christianity to actual problems in specific cases. But 
he wrote for the public beyond a doubt. He wrote 
for churches or for groups of churches and expected 
his epistles to be read in public and to be passed on 
from church to church (Colossians 4:16). He gave in- 
structions for testing the genuineness of his epistles 
(2 Thessalonians 2:2; 3:17). He expected his commands 
in his epistles to be obeyed (2 Thessalonians 3:14). And 
even the Letter to Philemon includes a message to 
Apphia, to Archippus, and to the church in his house. 
Paul makes his appeal to Philemon, but he has in mind 
in the background the group of disciples who met in 

PHILEMON WITH A SOCIAL PROBLEM 87 

the hospitable home of Philemon. It is an utter under- 
estimate of Paul's epistles to treat them as merely 
personal and casual. Paul took them seriously and 
meant them to be received as earnest attempts to in- 
fluence the lives of the readers. But to Philemon Paul 
did write a distinctly personal letter about a domestic 
and social problem, not concerning ecclesiastical or doc- 
trinal issues as in the Epistles to Timothy and Titus. 

It is true, then, that the Letter to Philemon is not a 
formal Epistle like that to the Church at Rome, nor 
is it a treatise on the attitude of Christianity to slavery, 
though the treatment of slavery by Christianity is in- 
volved, for Paul writes with this very fact in mind. 
There is this difference, therefore, between Paul's Let- 
ter to Philemon and the little letter of Caor, Papas of 
Hermupolis, to Flavins Abinnaeus, a.d. 346, concern- 
ing a runaway soldier by the name of Paul: "I would 
have thee know, lord, concerning Paul the soldier, 
concerning his flight: pardon him this once, seeing that 
I am without leisure to come unto thee at this pres- 
ent. And, if he desist not, he will come again into 
thy hands another time." 

"This little letter is one of the finest among the 
papyri," Deissmann adds (p. 205). The situation 
does in a way resemble the case of Onesimus, though 
"the Papas is not fit to hold a candle to St. Paul." 

The chief reason is that Caor is merely pleasant and 
playful and makes no effort to grapple with the real 
issue involved in the soldier's desertion. 

Much more pertinent is the letter to a friend by the 
younger Pliny (Pliny, Ephesians 9:21), in which this "no- 
blessed type of a true Roman gentlem.an" (Light foot. 

88 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

"Commentary," p. 317) in purest diction pleads for pity 
on the grounds of common humanity. ''Your f reed- 
man, with whom you had told me you were vexed, 
came to me, and throwing himself down before me 
clung to my feet, as if they had been yours. He was 
profuse in his tears and his entreaties; he was profuse 
also in his silence. In short, he convinced me of his 
penitence. I believe that he is a reformed character, 
because he feels that he has done wrong. You are 
angry, I know; and you have reason to be angry, this 
also I know; but mercy wins the highest praise just 
when there is the most righteous cause for anger. 
You loved the man, and, I hope, will continue to love 
him, meanwhile it is enough that you should allow 
yourself to yield to his prayers." So Pliny proceeds 
to plead for his youth, for his tears, for a spirit of 
gentleness, for a second chance. There is no need to 
depreciate the nobility of Pliny's plea. Only we must 
note how unusual this note of pity for the slave is in 
the Roman world. Pliny passes Paul in the graces of 
rhetoric, but Paul's spirit strikes deep into the heart 
of this open sore of the world and searches for the 
only real cure for the case of Onesimus and for all 
slaves. 

II. THE VALUE OF THE LETTER TO PHILEMON 

Light foot claims that "as an expression of simple 
dignity, of refined courtesy, of large sympathy, and 
of warm personal affection the Epistle to Philemon 
stands unrivaled" (''Commentary," p. 317). But this 
high estimate of the letter has not always been held. 
In the fourth century there was considerable depre- 

PHILEMON WITH A SOCIAL PROBLEM 89 

ciation of the letter on the ground that it was un- 
worthy of Paul to write about a runaway slave. These 
critics, concerned chiefly about Christological theories, 
denied that Paul wrote the letter, since it concerned 
neither doctrine nor ecclesiastical problems. *'0f what 
account was the fate of a single insignificant slave, 
long since dead and gone, to those before whose eyes 
the battle of the creeds was still raging?" (Lightfoot). 
Even Marcion had retained it in his canon and Baur 
in the last century praised the noble Christian spirit 
of the letter, while denying that Paul wrote it. But 
the hyperorthodox critics of the fourth century, like 
the radical Baur in the nineteenth, were wrong. Je- 
rome, Chrysostom, and Theodore of Mopsuestia ably 
championed the genuineness of the Letter to Phile- 
mon. The arguments that they produced have never 
been answered. The failure to appreciate the issue 
at stake in the case of Onesimus is precisely what has 
made so many nominal Christians ineffective. It is 
more concern for creed than for conduct, the failure 
to apply Christianity to the actual conditions of life. 
Modern Christian scholars, with the exception of Baur 
and Van Manen, have seen the spirit of Christ in 
Paul's plea for Onesimus. Luther terms it a ''right 
noble and lovely example of Christian love." Calvin 
speaks of the "life-like portrayal of the gentleness" of 
Paul's spirit as seen here. Franke says that "the single 
Epistle to Philemon very far surpasses all the wisdom 
of the world." Ewald notes the commanding spirit 
and tender friendship of Paul "in this letter, at once 
so brief, and yet so surpassingly full and significant." 
Sabatier glows with enthusiasm. "We have here only 

90 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

a few familiar lines, but so full of grace, of salt, of 
serious and trustful affection, that this short epistle 
gleams like a pearl of the most exquisite purity in the 
rich treasure of the New Testament." It is needless 
to quote other writers, though Renan calls it *'a verit- 
able little masterpiece of the art of letter-writing." 
We may admit that Paul wrote many personal letters 
like this that breathe the spirit of Christ. Some of 
them may yet be found. But we can at least be grate- 
ful that the Letter to Philemon has been preserved, 
that it still carries the message of Christ to the modern 
world which is in the throes of a social revolution 
that will never be settled till it is settled right, in har- 
mony with the teaching of this little letter. 

III. THE DATE OF THE LETTER 

It is certain that Paul was a prisoner at the time 
when he wrote, for he speaks of himself as *Taul the 
aged, and now a prisoner also of Christ Jesus" (verse 
9). The word presbutes apparently here means **aged" 
and not "ambassador." A number of scholars (Reuss, 
Weiss, Hilgenfeld, Holtzmann, Hausrath, Meyer) 
have argued for Caesarea rather than Rome as the 
place. Some even contend for Ephesus. But it is 
clear that the latter was sent at the same time as that 
to Colossse, since Onesimus (Philemon 10, 13; Col. 
4:9) is the bearer of both along with Tychicus who 
is also bearer of the Epistle to the Ephesians or Lao- 
diceans (Colossians 4:7, 16; Ephesians 6:21). The arguments 
in favor of Caesarea are quite indecisive. The near- 
ness of Caesarea to Colossae is really an objection, 
since Onesimus could hide in Rome better than in 

PHILEMON WITH A SOCIAL PROBLEM 91 

Caesarea. The plan of Paul for going to Macedonia 
(Philippians 2:24) does not weigh against Rome, since Paul 
could go on to Colossse from Philippi or the reverse. 
It is not necessary to decide whether Philippians pre- 
cedes or follows Philemon, though Philippians prob- 
ably comes first. At any rate all four epistles come 
within the period of Paul's first Roman imprisonment 
(a. d. 60-3). If Paul was born about the beginning 
of the century, he would be about sixty years old. But 
he had endured almost incredible hardships and perse- 
cutions (2 Corinthians 11) that probably made him show his 
age in a marked degree. Certain it is that he writes 
as one thoroughly familiar with conditions in the Ro- 
man Empire. He writes out of a full heart from the 
center of Roman life to a city in a far distant province, 
but the subject of slavery touches one of the nerve 
centers of Roman life. 

IV. THE PICTURE OF PHILEMON 

We know nothing of Philemon except what this 
letter tells us. The Apostolical Constitutions repre- 
sent him as bishop of Colossse and pseudo-Dositheus 
(sixth century) as bishop of Gaza. Greek Martyr- 
ology tells that he, Apphia, Archippus, and Onesimus 
were all stoned before Androcles the governor in the 
days of Nero. The Latin Martyrology likewise agrees 
with this story. In the Menea for November 22 he is 
called a ''holy apostle." But all this may be passed 
by as legendary. Philemon was a citizen of Colossse 
(Colossians 4:9; Philemon 11). He was a convert of Paul: 
**Thou owest to me even thine own self besides'* (Phile- 
mon 19). It is probable, therefore, since Paul had 

92 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

not been to Colossse (Colossians 2:1), that Philemon was 
converted in Ephesus during Paul's three years there 
when the gospel spread over the province of Asia (Acts 
19:10). There was easy and constant communica- 
tion between Ephesus and the Lycus Valley by one of 
the Roman roads that linked the great cities together. 
It is not certain that Philemon was a preacher. He 
may have been simply an active layman. Paul speaks 
of him as ''our beloved and fellow-worker" (Phile- 
mon I ), but sunergos can apply to a layman. He had 
a church in his house (Philemon 2), though here 
again we cannot tell whether it is the whole Church 
in Colossse that met with Philemon because he was 
the elder (or one of the elders) or merely a church 
group that met in his house for convenience. In 
either case it is plain that Philemon was a man of 
some property and standing to afford a house large 
enough for this purpose. Besides, he had slaves, of 
whom Onesimus had been one, and a family. It seems 
that Apphia was his wife, and Archippus their son. 
Paul speaks affectionately of her as *'our sister," and 
of Archippus as "our fellow-soldier." It is suggested 
by Zahn that he was the reader of the church, and by 
Abbott ("Int. Crit. Comm.") that he was a presbyter 
in the Church or at least an evangelist. It is even 
held from Colossians 4:17 that Archippus was elder in 
the Church of Laodicea: "And say to Archippus, take 
heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the 
Lord, that thou fulfill it." At any rate we have the 
picture of a delightful Christian home, where all were 
active in Christian service. 

As to Philemon Paul has the kindest words of praise 

PHILEMON WITH A SOCIAL PROBLEM 9S 

(Philemon 4-7) for him. Paul offers for him one of 
the great prayers of all time. This prayer for Phile- 
mon follows the usual order, but it is full of passion 
and power. He makes mention of Philemon in his 
prayers and he is always grateful because of what he 
has heard, probably through Epaphras (Colossians 1:7, 8; 4: 
12), concerning the love which he had for all the 
saints and the faith which he had toward the Lord 
Jesus. And yet Paul has *'love and faith" together as 
if both of them were exercised toward the Lord Jesus 
and towards the saints. Certainly both words can 
be so employed, though not with quite the same con- 
tent. First come love for and faith in the Lord Jesus, 
then love for and faith in the saints. Paul had experi- 
enced (eschon, effective aorist) much joy and consola- 
tion in the love of Philemon, ''because the hearts of 
the saints have been refreshed (same verb in Matthew 11: 
28, "I will give you rest") through thee, brother" 
(Philemon 7). Philemon evidently was liberal and 
active in his beneficence, just the sort of man to cheer 
a preacher's heart. He was on the look out for oppor- 
tunities of doing good. So then (ver. 6) Paul prays 
*'that the fellowship of thy faith may become effectual 
in the knowledge of every good thing which is in you, 
unto Christ." The fellowship (koinonia) is the com- 
mon word for contribution or more exactly partner- 
ship. The word for "effectual" (energes) is our word 
energy (at work). Paul's prayer, therefore, is that 
Philemon's generosity may become really effective, 
that he may know it himself, that God may carry him 
on in service for Christ. The prayer itself is a tribute 

94* TYPES OF PREACHERS 

and shows that Paul considers him worthy of the 
great things that he means to ask of him. 

Paul has a genuine affection for Philemon, as is, 
manifest. He is "our beloved and fellow-worker" 
(2); he speaks of *'thy goodness" (14); "if then thou 
countest me partner" (17, koinonon, like our "pal"; cf. 
Luke 5 :io. James and John were "partners with 
Simon"); "I hope that through your prayers I shall 
be granted unto you" (Philemon 22). Paul plainly 
feels a close bond of fellowship with Philemon. In all 
probability Philemon had come to be one of his chief 
helpers in Asia while Paul was in Ephesus. He is thus 
at liberty to address Philemon upon any topic. 

V. THE CONDUCT OF ONESIMUS 

It had been very bad. In plain English, he was a 
runaway slave and a thief besides. Paul would hardly 
have said, "But if he hath wronged thee at all or oweth 
thee aught" (ver. 18), unless it were true. Paul states 
the matter delicately and hypo the tic ally as a debt, but 
his meaning is clear. Onesimus was, of course, still a 
heathen when he ran away and defrauded his master 
of his services. He may, indeed, have seen Paul in 
Ephesus on a visit with his master Philemon, but it 
seems clear that he was not converted till coming to 
Rome. Evil men, Tacitus says, flocked to Rome, 
gladiators, soldiers, soothsayers, slaves. Among the 
Jews slaves were very few, but in Athens there were 
four times as many slaves as citizens. Wealthy Roman 
landowners sometimes possessed twenty thousand 
slaves. It is not known how many slaves were in the 
Roman Empire, probably six or seven million. These 

PHILEMON WITH A SOCIAL PROBLEM 95 

slaves were sometimes very degraded people, some- 
times people of culture and former wealth, victims of 
war and rapine. Freedmen like Epictetus often rep- 
resented the highest culture of the community and were 
the school-teachers and philosophers of the time. 
Roman law gave the slave no rights and no protection. 
Not till Constantine's time did they have any rights 
as husband and wife. Even Aristotle spoke of the 
slave as a "live chattel" or property (Pol. 1:4) or a 
**live implement" (Eth. Nic. 8:13). 'The slave was 
absolutely at his master's disposal; for the smallest 
offense he might be scourged, mutilated, crucified, 
thrown to the wild beasts" (Lightfoot, p. 319). A 
Roman senator, Pedanius Secundus, had been slain by 
one of his slaves in anger. In revenge four hundred 
slaves were execiJted. The populace rebelled and tried 
to prevent the tragedy, but Roman soldiers lined the 
road as the slaves were led to execution. Rome lived 
over a volcano and each man had "as many enemies as 
slaves." Onesimus was not merely a runaway slave 
and a thief, a representative of "the least respectable 
type of the least respectable class in the social scale" 
(Lightfoot, p. 309), but he was also a Phrygian slave. 
The Phrygians were despised most of all, and Onesi- 
mus had lived up to the bad reputation of his race 
and of his class. His name, forsooth, was good enough 
(meaning "useful") but he had proved "unprofitable" 
(Philemon 1 1 ) to Philemon. Paul makes the pun upon 
his name after his conversion when he had proved true 
to his name. Many slaves and freedmen bore the 
name Onesimus. Paul does not try to conceal the 
crime of Onesimus. He had sunk to the bottom. 

96 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

He had come to Rome and wallowed in this cesspool 
of humanity as one of the offscourings of humanity. 
He was in no sense a hero, not even with Paul. One 
is reminded of the "underground railway" before and 
during the Civil War in the United States, when the 
runaway slaves escaped over the Ohio River to free- 
dom. It is a dark picture even as Paul draws it with 
his delicate and sympathetic pen. 

VI. THE PROBLEM BEFORE PAUL 

We do not know why Onesimus came to Paul, who 
was himself a prisoner under military guard, though 
living in his own hired house. It may have been 
Epaphras who recognized Onesimus and who brought 
him to Paul. It may have been one of the soldiers 
whom Paul had won to Christ. It may have been the 
memory of the words of Philemon or of others at the 
gatherings in Colossse; it may have been the lashings 
of a guilty conscience; it may have been sheer want 
from hunger or even desperation (Light foot). Of 
this we cannot tell. The famous Rescue Mission 
worker, Rev. Melvin Trotter, was on the way to com- 
mit suicide in Lake Michigan, when he was drawn into 
the Pacific Garden Mission in Chicago and converted. 
The hour of man's extremity is God's opportunity. 
Somehow Onesimus came under the spell of Paul's 
influence and was won to Christ. The conversion was 
genuine and Paul was sure of the result. But what 
should Paul advise Onesimus to do? Legally he was 
still the slave of Philemon, who could put him to death 
for his crime. Certainly Philemon, as a Christian, 
would not do that. But should Onesimus go back at 

PHILEMON WITH A SOCIAL PROBLEM 97 

all and re-enter the life of slavery now that he was 
Christ's freeman? The answer is not an easy one. 
"Onesimus had repented, but he had not made restitu- 
tion" (Lightfoot). D. L. Moody used to preach the 
duty of restitution with great vigor. Onesimus could 
not ofifer to make restitution without going back under 
the yoke of slavery. Shall Paul send him back? That 
is the problem. If he does not send him back he has 
wronged both Onesimus and Philemon. If he sends 
him back he may likewise wrong them both if Phile- 
mon continues to treat Onesimus merely as a slave as 
if nothing had changed their relations with each other. 
So Paul chooses the latter alternative. He will send 
Onesimus back to Philemon under the guard of Tychi- 
cus (Colossians 4:7-9), but with a powerful appeal to 
Philemon for forgiveness towards Onesimus. Did he 
do right? Should he have done more? Should he 
have attacked slavery as an institution? Should he 
have aroused the slaves in the -Roman Empire to re- 
volt? Did Paul wink at slavery? 

VII. Paul's plea for onesimus 

It is not admitted by all that Paul recognized slavery 
to be an evil. He does urge Christian slaves to be 
indifferent to their bondage (1 Corinthians 7:21), "but if 
thou canst become free, use it rather" (margin of Re- 
vised Version), that is, "become free." Certainly Paul 
means (7:22f.) that our relation to Christ is the main 
thing. The slave can be Christ's freedman. That is 
the chief thing. But Paul taught the Christian doc- 
trine of liberty that works against all autocracy and 
oppression: "There can be neither Jew nor Greek, 

9S TYPES OF PREACHERS 

there can be neither bond nor free, there can be no 
male and female; for ye are all one man in Christ 
Jesus" (Galatians 3:28). That is absolutely revolutionary 
doctrine, as I have tried to show in my book, ''The 
New Citizenship." That leaven began to work in the 
first century as the result of Paul's preaching. "The 
old world was parted by deep gulfs. There were three 
of special depth and width, across which it was hard 
for sympathy to fly. These were the distinctions of 
race, sex, and condition" (Maclaren, *'Colossians and 
Philemon," p. 224). We do not have to say that Paul 
thought out the full development of this platform of 
freedom. The important thing is that he had pro- 
claimed it. He had urged Christian slaves to be good 
servants, but he had insisted that Christian masters be 
just and merciful to their slaves. Paul was not uncon- 
cerned about the social wrongs in the world of his day. 
He attacked those wrongs courageously and with con- 
summate wisdom. 

In the letter to Philemon Paul applies his principle 
of freedom in Christ to the specific case of Onesimus. 
He is in the realm of the concrete, and is not a mere 
doctrinaire reformer. It is to be noted at once that 
Paul deals with Onesimus as a man and as a brother. 
There were occasional instances of pity for slaves on 
the part of masters, as in the case of the younger Pliny 
(Ephesians 8:16), but as a rule there was an utter lack 
of regard for the slave as a man at all. Aristotle 
thought that one should have no friendship with a 
slave as a slave, but might deal with him as a man. 
No such subtle philosophy troubled Paul. Paul took 
Onesimus ''both in the flesh and in the Lord" (Phile- 

PHILEMON WITH A SOCIAL PROBLEM 99 

mon 1:6), "as a brother beloved" (1:6), as his very 
''child" (lo), as Paul's "very heart" (12). We know 
from the papyri that many slaves became Christians. 
The Letter to Philemon makes it plain why it was true. 
Here alone, in Christianity, were slaves treated as 
human beings. Here they were called "brothers." 
Here they could find usefulness and promotion. Many 
of the slaves became pastors of the Churches. The 
millions of slaves in the Roman Empire saw in Chris- 
tianity their one ray of hope. They were right. 
Christianity is still fighting the battles of race, class, 
and sex. The great war that is just over gathered 
up all these issues. They will be fought to a finish in 
accord with the Spirit of Christ. 

Paul does not leave the case there. He does unhesi- 
tatingly and frankly take Onesimus to his bosom and 
heart as a brother in Christ. But he does more. He 
boldly asks that Philemon shall do the same. But not 
witho'it restitution. Paul gives his note of hand to 
that effect. "I will repay it" (ver. 19). "Put that 
to mine account" (ver. 18). Paul uses the technical 
language for debt that is so common in the papyri. 
But that is merely to clear the path for the real test. 
Paul asks that Philemon take Onesimus back, without 
punishment, to be sure. Paul has sent him back re- 
luctantly because he had found him useful (vers. 1:2f.). 
But he wishes Philemon to have the privilege of being 
generous with Onesimus (vers. 1:4f.). Paul claims 
the right as an apostle to enjoin (give military orders, 
epitassein, ver. 8) upon Philemon what is befitting. 
Moral propriety (cf. Colossians 3:18, for this same word) 
brings moral obligation. Paul wishes Philemon to 

100 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

have the chance to come up of his own accord, willingly 
and as a matter of judgment, not of necessity under 
pressure from Paul (Philemon 14). Hence Paul ap- 
peals and exhorts by reason of love as the true principle 
by which to act. He adds also the fact that Paul who 
pleads for Onesimus is the aged (or the ambassador of 
Jesus) and a prisoner of Christ, and has a right to be 
heard by reason of the scars of service that he bears 
(c/. Galatians 6:17). 

Paul does not wish Philemon to think that he is 
trying to push off on him a tough case that is in his 
way. On the contrary, he has found positive pleasure 
in the service of Onesimus, and could wish to keep 
him both for his own worth and to take the place of 
Philemon who is so far away (vers. 12, 13). It is 
a delicate compliment to both Philemon and Onesimus. 
The essential refinement of Paul's nature appears at 
every turn in this charming and courteous and en- 
nobling letter. Paul appeals to the best side of Phile- 
mon's nature. He assumes that his being a slaveholder 
had not debased his humanitarian feelings. The ten- 
dency was in that direction, as ''Uncle Tom's Cabin" 
showed. But it was not necessary for a Christian man 
to yield to the brutalizing influence of mere power, as 
the lives of Washington, Lee, and Jackson abundantly 
prove. The nobler side of the institution of slavery 
in the South is well shown in Mrs. Smede's 'The 
Southern Planter" and in Thomas Nelson Page's 
''Marse Chan" and other Virginian stories. But the 
peril of slavery was and is that the slave was at the 
mercy of a conscienceless master who could hold him 
down and even ruin his life. 

PHILEMON WITH A SOCIAL PROBLEM 101 

Paul treats with Philemon on the basis of humanity 
and Christianity. He admits all the technical legal 
claims upon Onesimus, but boldly begs for his recep- 
tion by Philemon not merely as a pardoned runaway 
slave who is restored to his former status. That is 
only the first 'step. Paul dares to go further and to 
ask that Philemon receive him "no longer as a slave, 
but more than a slave, a brother beloved, specially 
to me, but how much rather to thee, both in the flesh 
and in the Lord" (ver. 1:6). Imagine a slave in the 
home who is no longer a slave, but a brother beloved! 
It is a revolutionary request, possible only on the plea 
of love. "For perhaps he was therefore parted from 
thee for a season, that thou shouldest have him for 
ever" (ver. 15). Could anything surpass this turn in 
interpreting God's overruling providence? 

Paul is fully aware that he has gone pretty far with 
Philemon. But he means to go farther. "If then thou 
countest me a partner, receive him as myself" (ver. 
17). He expects Onesimus to be treated in all essen- 
tials as Paul would be in social and religious privileges. 
It is clear that Onesimus was a man of parts in spite 
of his conduct and his Phrygian blood. There was 
the making of a man in him. Paul wants him to have 
his chance. He is expecting to come to see Philemon 
when, through his prayers, he is released from bondage 
in Rome, and he confidently asks that his lodging be 
gotten ready (ver. 22). All this adds to the piquancy 
of the request for handsome treatment of Onesimus, 
as if Paul had already come. It is the perfection of 
courtesy and dignity and courage. Paul is sure that 
Philemon wishes to make him happy: "Yea, brother, 

lOa TYPES OF PREACHERS 

let me have joy of thee in the Lord: refresh my heart 
in Christ" (ver. 20). The very word for "have joy" 
(onahnen) is the same root as the name Onesimus, 
itself a playful plea for the Christian slave. The word 
for * 'refresh" is the one already employed concerning 
Philemon in verse 7. The word for "heart" is here 
the third time in the letter (7, 12, 20), and is a very 
tender emotional word of strong feeling. 

Surely St. Paul has finished his plea. But no, he 
has one more word before he closes. It is plain enough 
that, if Philemon accedes to Paul's request, Onesimus 
will be "no longer a slave." He must be set free. And 
yet Paul hesitates to write that word. He means it, 
and he makes Philemon see it staring at him all 
through the letter, but he wishes Philemon to spell it 
voluntarily, "that thy goodness should not be as of 
necessity, but of free will" (ver. 14). Freedmen were 
common enough in the Roman Empire. Sometimes 
freedom was won by some deed of heroism. The slave 
occasionally saved money and bought his own freedom. 
The master sometimes voluntarily freed a slave. Some- 
times a man of generous impulses paid the price of a 
slave and set him free. The papyri and ostraca furnish 
many illustrations of Paul's very language on this point 
(Galatians 5 :1:13). Christ paid the price of our bondage 
with His blood and set us free. This is the language 
of Paul and Peter and of John. "For freedom did 
Christ set us free" (Galatians 5:1). Paul will not use the 
word "freedom" to Philemon, but he ventures to hint 
it so clearly that there can be no mistake. "Having 
confidence in thine obedience, I write unto thee, know- 
ing that thou wilt do even beyond what I say" (ver. 

PHILEMON WITH A SOCIAL PROBLEM. 103 

21 ). Beyond what Paul had said, but not beyond what 
he had meant. Paul is sure that the sense of duty in 
Philemon will compel obedience to the highest things. 
Noblesse oblige. The very nobility of Philemon's char- 
acter as a Christian will compel him to set Onesimus 
free. So Paul rests his plea. The word for freedom 
has trembled on his lips all through the letter, but 
out of considerations of respect for Philemon it has 
not escaped. But Philemon was bound to know what 
Paul meant. 

Did he set Onesimus free? We do not know. "It 
cannot be imagined that this appeal in behalf of .Onesi- 
mus was in vain" (Rutherford). Tradition (''Apos- 
tolical Canons," 82) relates that Philemon forgave 
Onesimus and manumitted him. All sorts of rumors 
gained currency about Onesimus. One is that he be- 
came bishop in Beroea ("Apost. Const." 7:46), 
another that he journeyed to Spain, another that he 
was martyred in Rome or at Puteoli. E. A. Abbott 
has written a fictitious story of what might have hap- 
pened to him in his "Onesimus." 

VIII. CHRISTIANITY IN THE MARKET PLACE 

Why did not Paul attack slavery as an institution B 
Did he mean to imply that slavery is wrong per se? 
These questions are easier to ask than to answer. 
Advocates of slavery have claimed that Paul in the 
Letter to Philemon condones slavery as an institution^ 
Enemies of slavery argue that he shows himself the 
foe of slavery. Vincent ("Int. Crit. Comm.," p. 165) 
thinks that "it is more than questionable whether St. 
Paul had grasped the postulate of the modern Chris-' 

X 

104 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

tian consciousness that no man has the right to own, 
another." It was not necessary for him to see that., 
But Paul was bound to be conscious of what he was 
doing. He definitely and boldly took the side of liberty 
in this plea for Onesimus as he had fought for and 
had won the freedom of Titus from Jewish legalism 
(Galatians 2:1-10). The whole issue was summed up in 
each instance in a concrete case. *'The letter to Phile- 
mon is the first indication in Christian literature that 
the problem of the relation of master to slave must be 
seriously affected by the new conception of the brother- 
hood of man, which Christ's apostles had set themselves 
to proclaim" (Bernard). A little leaven would in time 
leaven the whole lump. It seems a long step and 'a 
long time from Paul's gracious words to Philemon to 
Lincoln's blunt assertion that the Union cannot con- 
tinue half-slave and half-free. But it is safe to affirm 
that Paul made possible Lincoln's emancipation proc- 
lamation. 

Paul was not an anarchist, as is plain from Romans 
13:1-7. He believed in government, and taught 
obedience save where conscience was attacked. Then 
he was not slow to assert his rights. The slave was 
quick to see the help that Christianity offered him. The 
slaves flocked to Christ in large numbers. Christianity 
had to show that its adherents could make good citizens 
of the Roman Empire as well as good members of the 
kingdom of heaven. That issue is still a vital one. 
Christ and Caesar are still rival claimants for our 
loyalty. Some men have not learned how to be true 
to both. "Whatever may have been the range of Paul's 
outlook, the policy which he pursued vindicated itself 

PHILEMON WITH A SOCIAL PROBLEM 105 

in the subsequent history of slavery. The principles 
of the gospel not only curtailed its abuses, but de- 
stroyed the thing itself; for it could not exist without 
its abuses" (Vincent, p. 167). Paul insisted on the 
duty of the master to be just to the slave (Ephesians 6:9; 
Colossians 4:1). Christians learned the habit of freeing 
their slaves. ''Sepulchral paintings often represent the 
master standing before the Good Shepherd with a band 
of slaves Hberated at his death, pleading for him at 
the last judgment" (Vincent, p. 168). Christian slaves 
sat side by side with the master in church and par- 
took of the communion together. Slaves became pres- 
byters. *'The Christian teachers and clergymen be- 
came known as 'the brothers of the slave,' and the slaves 
themselves were called 'the freedmen of Christ' '* 
(Brace, "Gesta Christi"). From Constantlne to the 
tenth century laws were passed to help the slaves. 

One may grow impatient that it took so long for the 
shackles to be loosed from the slaves of the world even 
in so-called Christian lands. One has to reckon with 
the grip of money and selfishness and love of power 
and pleasure. Even Christian men relax their hold 
upon privilege and power slowly and reluctantly. But 
the principle of love and equality in the Letter to 
Philemon was in the end bound to destroy slavery. "It 
was only a question of time" (Lightfoot). 

There have been times when Christianity was called 
a dead letter because slavery was allowed. It has 
even been justified by Christian preachers. But the 
chivalry of the gospel was at v/ork. Social prejudices 
received a wound when slave girls like Blandina in 
Gaul or Felicitas in Africa became martyrs and were 

106 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

celebrated in festivals (Lightfoot). The day came 
when Britain turned upon slavery as an accursed thing. 
"The abolition of slavery throughout the British Em- 
pire at an enormous material sacrifice is one of the 
greatest moral conquests which England has ever 
achieved" (Lightfoot, pp. 326f.). In the United States 
we were not so wise, and it cost blood and treasure 
untold to set the negro free. But it was done in 
Britain and America in response to the Christian im- 
pulse. Lightfoot dares to claim that the era of libera- 
tion for mankind came as a result of the Letter to 
Philemon. The leaven had finally done its work. 

But all men are not yet free. The gospel of liberty 
must still be proclaimed on the housetop and in the 
market-place. Paul met the philosophers in the market- 
place at Athens. He did not hesitate to come to close 
grips with them. He likewise joined issue with human 
greed and love of power over other men in the case 
of Onesimus. He did not shrink from the issue, and 
squarely put the matter up to Philemon. Paul was a 
mystic and a transcendentalist. He taught other- 
worldliness as a blessed hope, as the mainstay of the 
life that now is. But Paul was a practical idealist. 
He had no patience with putting up with ills that could 
be cured. There were plenty to endure that were be- 
yond relief. Paul was a social reformer who cut at 
the root of current abuses. He did not try to tear 
down the whole structure of human society at one 
blow. He preached principles that would inevitably 
make a heaven out of earth if men had the courage to 
put them into practice. He did not preach a kingdom 
of heaven that concerned only the future life. His 

PHILEMON WITH A SOCIAL PROBLEM 107 

real citizenship was in heaven even while on earth, but 
this conception involved living on earth like a citizen 
of heaven — member of a colony of heaven on earth. 

In the end slavery has gone down in response to 
Paul's interpretation of the gospel of Christ. The grip 
of alcohol is likewise now loosened. America has gone 
ahead of Britain in the abolition of this slavery of the 
soul and body. Sex prejudice is slowly giving way, 
more rapidly in Britain than in America. Race preju- 
dice is still alive in spite of the League of Nations. 
The great war has not slain this dragon that is already 
again raising his head over the world. 

But Christianity cannot shirk the issue. It is in the 
market-place. It is in the midst of the fight to rescue 
men like Onesimus who have become the victims of 
human greed, to set women free from man's lust, to 
give children a chance to grow into the full stature of 
manhood in Christ Jesus. The Letter to Philemon is 
the Magna Charta of the human spirit. The only real 
freedom is that in Christ. When the Son sets us free, 
we are free in reality, free to do right to other men, 
free to fight the cause of liberty for all nations, for all 
classes, for both sexes. The foes of freedom are not 
dead, but liberty is winning its way. The star of 
democracy is in the ascendant, and the star of autocracy 
is at last going down in defeat. The world cannot 
always continue half-slave and half-free.. 

CHAPTER VI 

STEPHEN THE PATHBREAKER AND THE 
MARTYR 

I. AN EPOCH-MARKING MAN 

Stephen does not cut a very large figure in the book 
of Acts. His story comes wholly in chapters 6 and 7, 
save Paul's allusion to him in 22 :20 as ''Stephen thy 
witness" (martyr), "but its vital importance for the 
history is obvious from the pages of the Acts" (Rack- 
ham). 

He stands at the parting of the ways and marks a 
revolution within Jewish Christianity. His speech 
is the longest in the Acts and Luke evidently regarded 
him as the true transition from Peter to Paul. He 
was a "new man" (Rackham) and so well suited to 
an era of reconstruction. He was a pioneer of prog- 
ress and, as is often the case, paid the penalty for his 
prophetic insight and foresight by being ahead of his 
age. We need not say that he created the crisis be- 
tween Christianity and Judaism, for that was inevit- 
able. But he precipitated it and so challenges our 
interest today. 

II. A MAN OF RARE GIFTS FOR THE EMERGENCY 

He comes into the story in a rather incidental way 
as one of the Seven who were chosen to "serve tables" 
{Ji[.(XKov€i.v Tpairk^aLS, Acts 6:2) so that the twelve might 

108 

STEPHEN— PATHBREAKER, MARTYR 109 

devote themselves to prayer and to the ministry of the 
word" (ttj dLaKovla Tov \6yov, verse 4). The distribu- 
tion of the funds for the poor (chaps. 3 and 4) had 
taken too much of the time of the apostles who had to 
"leave the word" (6:2) ''to minister to tables." 

The modern minister is constantly exposed to this 
very temptation. He must be a church, denomina- 
tional, and civic leader. The merely administrative 
side of his task threatens to thrust the spiritual and 
educational to one side. Paul carried the balance well 
as missionary, statesman,, evangelist, teacher, theo- 
logian, author, pastor. 

Perhaps the twelve might not have felt the burden 
so keenly but for the criticism of the Hellenistic 
(Greek-speaking Jews from without Palestine) Chris- 
tians that the Hellenistic widows were discriminated 
against in the distribution of the common funds. One 
of the largest givers was Barnabas, Hellenist, of 
Cyprus. It is not easy to allay suspicion of that 
nature, however unjust. The twelve adopted the bold 
plan of asking the church to choose seven men, ap- 
proved by the church, full of the Holy Spirit and 
wisdom, men whom the whole church trusted. 

It was a wise solution of the predicament. It seems 
likely, though not certain, that "deacons" grew out of 
this arrangement. There is no mention of "elders" 
till Acts 11:30. Besides, all (or nearly all, if we 
judge by their names) of the Seven were Hellenists. 
Thus the Hellenists must now judge the fairness of a 
Hellenistic body, not of an Aramaean body like the 
Twelve. 

110 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

First of the Seven 

The outstanding man in the Hst of seven is Stephen. 
Crown (<TTe(pavos) is the meaning of his name. He 
won the martyr's crown and wore the halo of glory 
from the face of Christ. He heads the list as "a man 
full of faith and of the Holy Spirit" (6:5). He en- 
tered upon his work "full of grace and power" who also 
** wrought great wonders and signs among the people" 
(6:8). 

It is 'plain that Stephen was like Paul in the com- 
bination of the mystic and the practical. He was a 
man of vision who brought things to pass. He was 
a poet in both senses of the word (the seer and the 
doer). He had faith and grace (trust and charm). 
He had wisdom and power. Without faith one can- 
not pierce the veil of the future. Without grace he 
cannot win followers. Without wisdom he cannot 
lucidly project his vision into the realm of the prac- 
tical. Without power (dynamite, 8vvsanLs) he can- 
not drive it through to realization. Stephen had 
all these powers and energies and the gift of the 
Holy Spirit who suffered with divine afflatus all that 
he did. He was a combination of the practical ideal- 
ism of Woodrow Wilson, the hardheadedness of 
Clemenceau, and the dynamic energy of Lloyd George. 
"We have the story of but one day in his life, the 
last: yet there is no man in the New Testament of 
whom we are told so much without one blemish being 
revealed" (Furneaux). 

Stephen furnishes one of the famous "ifs" of his- 
tory. H he had lived, who can tell what his career 

STEPHEN— PATHBREAKER, MARTYR 111 

would have been? Would he have challenged first 
place with Paul as the heroic pathfinder for Chris- 
tianity? Already he excelled the twelve in his phi- 
losophic grasp of the significance of the Christian 
movement in its bearing on Judaism. 

Stephen belongs to the long list of gifted young men 
cut off in the prime of power and promise like Keats, 
like Rupert Brooke and many another genius sacrificed 
in the plenitude of hope. Stephen wrought miracles 
and had every mark of the seal of the Holy Spirit 
upon his work. 

III. AN IRRESISTIBLE APOLOGIST FOR THE FAITH 

He cut a wide swath among the people and soon 
swept beyond the office for which he was chosen. 

If Stephen and Philip (the evangelist, as he be- 
came) are types for modern deacons, some of them 
fall far short of their opportunities. The average dea- 
con takes this office more as an honor than as a call to 
service. It must be remembered that all the early 
disciples are witnesses for Christ. One of the saddest 
misfortunes in Christian history is the officialism that 
has confined soul-winning so largely to preachers, some 
of whom do not know how to do that, but only to 
deliver sermons. 

Certainly Stephen did not feel that being one of 
the Seven cut him out of preaching the Word. The 
rather it gave him a fresh prominence and a new leader- 
ship among the Hellenists whose representative he 
was. So we see this deacon and lay-preacher busy in 
the Hellenistic synagogues of Jerusalem. 

His bold and powerful proclamation of the gospel 

112 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

of grace and freedom in Christ awakened opposition 
in these synagogues. Stephen became the center of 
debate as the champions of Judaism challenged his 
presentation of Christianity and Judaism, "disputing 
with Stephen" {crvv^r]TOvvTes Tco l^Te(pavco) . 

It was exciting work, we may be sure, but Stephen 
was flushed with victory, for "they were not able to 
resist the wisdom and the Spirit witi which he spoke" 
6:io). They rose up quickly (avkaTTjaav, aorist tense, 
ingressive action), but they had not strength to stand 
against (ovk laxvovavTiarriv at) this Spiritual tornado 
that swept down all in his path. 

A New Type of Preacher 

For the moment Stephen, not Peter, held the center 
of the stage in Jerusalem. Stephen was a new type 
of preacher. He had Hellenic culture, was possibly an 
Alexandrian, and was able, like Apollos and Paul after 
him, to give a philosophic interpretation of Chris- 
tianity that was out of Peter's range. 

There is no evidence that the twelve felt any jeal- 
ousy of Stephen nor was there opportunity for them 
to come to his help at his trial. They themselves had 
been on trial before the same Sanhedrin. 

Stephen undoubtedly alarmed the yabbis by the 
power of his message. Their very failure to answer 
"this first great apologist for Christianity" (Press, 
Int. St. "Bible Encyclopaedia") reminded them of Jesus 
in the Temple whose destruction he foretold on Olivet. 
Stephen dared to proclaim the perfect equality of Jew 
and Gentile in the Kingdom of God and he showed the 

STEPHEN— PATHBREAKER, IVIARTYR 113 

spiritual nature of worship as Jesus had done to the 
woman at the well (John 4). 

Among those rabbis who rallied to the defense of 
Jewish orthodoxy was probably the young man Saul, 
the pride of Gamaliel and his school. In the Cilician 
synagogue this brilliant young rabbi of Tarsus who 
had led all his fellow-students in Judaism (Galatians 1 114) 
met Stephen and, like the rest, fell before the might of 
Stephen's arguments. 

A public humiliation is hard for a proud man to 
endure. For the moment Christianity was trium- 
pliant unless Stephen could be gotten out of the way. 
The people were with Stephen. Why were the rabbis 
so opposed to him? 

IV. PROPHET OF THE INEVITABLE BREACH BETWEEN 
CHRISTIANITY AND JUDAISM 

It is not every man who can see the drift of a new 
message or policy. Most people run in ruts until 
jolted out by a sudden clash. The Pharisees were 
quick to see that the message of Jesus meant their own 
undoing if his theory of the Kingdom won the day. 
They were right in their suspicion toward Jesus as an 
iconoclast and revolutionist from the standpoint of 
Pharisaic traditionalism. His emphasis on spiritual 
reality and moral righteousness made their profes- 
sional and pietistic functions seem empty and hollow. 
At bottom the Pharisees killed Jesus for his picture of 
their own theological and political hopes. 

The twelve apostles naturally stressed the fact that 
the resurrection of Jesus from the dead, and the Sad- 
ducees challenged their claim with energy and bitter 

114. TYPES OF PREACHERS 

resentment. Gamaliel and the Pharisees held aloof and 
apparently enjoyed the predicament of the Sadducees, 
their hated rivals in the Sanhedrin. 

Struck Out on a New Line 

But Stephen struck out on a new line and showed 
how Judaism was preparatory for Christianity and 
was temporary and would pass away. His Hellenic 
culture undoubtedly made it easier for Stephen to see 
the true relation of Judaism and Christianity as was 
true also with Paul. Peter had a hard struggle to see 
how Gentiles could be saved without first becoming 
Jews, though he did see it after Stephen's death (Acts 
lo and ii). 

But there is enough in the teaching of Jesus to ex- 
plain all that Stephen said. Jesus had explained about 
the new patch on the old garment and new wine in old 
bottles to show that Christianity was a spiritual revo- 
lution and was not to be cribbed and cabined by the 
current Judaism. The worship of God is spiritual 
whether in Jerusalem or on Mt. Gerizim (John 
4:2off.). Jesus had charged Pharisaism with being 
hypocritical formalism at variance with the word of 
God (Mark 7:6) and had predicted the destruction of 
the temple (Mark 13 12) and the passing of the King- 
dom of God to the Gentiles (Matthew 21:43). 

The twelve apostles had not as yet seized upon this 
phase of Christ's teaching. But Stephen boldly pro- 
claimed the spiritual nature of the worship of God 
irrespective of nation or place. He did it, moreover, 
with such cogency and clarity that he carried the Hel- 
lenists in the synagogue with him. A new force had 

STEPHEN— PATHBREAKER, MARTYR 115 

to be reckoned with and the Pharisees once more 
sprang to the rescue of the ark of Judaism. 

Religious Demagogy 

These conscientious inquisitors and persecutors had 
the zeal of fanatics and were without scruples if so 
be they could compass their ends. And it must be 
noted that Hellenists attacked Stephen with the same 
zeal of the Palestinian or Aramaean Jews. Beaten in 
debate by Stephen his opponents * 'suborned men" who 
were willing to perjure themselves for pay in the in- 
terest of Jewish orthodoxy. "We heard him speak 
blasphemous words against Moses and God." They 
twisted his interpretation of Christianity in terms of 
mankind to be a direct attack on Moses who is here 
mentioned before God. Moses stood for all the Phar- 
isaic theology and they "stirred up the people and the 
elders and the scribes" by the charge that Stephen was 
seeking to undermine Judaism. 

It is not hard to make an ad captandum plea to 
the populace. Stephen soon found himself under 
arrest for heresy and arraigned before the Sanhedrin. 
The mob had rushed at him in their rage and were now 
ready to believe false witnesses who said, "This fellow 
does not cease to speak words against this holy place 
and the law, for we heard him say that Jesus, this 
Nazarene, will destroy this place and will change the 
customs that Moses delivered unto us" (Acts 6:13). 

It was to their thinking both blasphemy and heresy. 
In fact, it was neither. Stephen was the true inter- 
preter of Moses as was Jesus. He taught the real 
worship of God in the spirit. He foresaw the inevit- 

116 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

able disappearance of Judaism before Christianity and 
in a prophetic spirit predicted it. But Stephen did not 
deny the divine origin of the Mosaic law; he did not 
revile the temple. But Jewish national pride was 
aroused against Stephen by the specious charge. Piety 
and patriotism blazed out at him. What could he say 
in defense of his attitude? 

V. A COURAGEOUS INTERPRETER OF JEWISH HISTORY 

It was Stephen's supreme hour. He felt it and was 
looking unto Jesus for help. We read of none of the 
disciples who offered sympathy and help at this hour. 
They may have been cowed into silence. Some may 
have thought Stephen too bold and aggressive. 

But a strange thing happened. The people gazed 
in awe at the face of Stephen which was transfigured 
with glory like that of Moses when he came down from 
the mount when he had been talking with Jehovah. 

The young man Saul noticed it and long years after- 
wards understood what it meant (2 Corinthians 3:18). 
Stephen saw Jesus and the glory of God (Acts 
7:55) and his very face shone with the inward peace 
and light that radiated with a halo, as if his face were 
that of an angel. 

Stephen probably thought rapidly as he recalled 
the fate of Jesus before this very body on precisely 
similar charges. He doubtless knew before he spoke 
what his fate would be. Pilate had surrendered to the 
Sanhedrin then, and there was small hope that Roman 
power would intervene in behalf of Stephen now. All 
that Stephen could do was to speak a clear and true 
word that would define the issue for which he was to 

STEPHEN— PATHBREAKER, MARTYR 117 

die. Thus he might do much by dying for his Lord 
and for the freedom of the human spirit. 

A Skilful Argument 

His apology is really exceedingly skilful and adroit 
though at first one is surprised that the charges are 
not directly answered and the name of Jesus does not 
occur. But his address does answer the charges com- 
pletely and it is a great and notable defense of Christ. 
He recounts Jewish history from Abraham to Solomon 
with philosophic grasp and spiritual insight. 

He holds the attention of these rabid Jews as he 
retells the familiar and wonderful story. But he gives 
a fresh turn to the narrative that startles while it en- 
thralls them. He ^ows that the worship of God in 
one place was not true at the beginning, and was tem- 
porary and not essential. He shows how the people 
had misunderstood God's hand with them and had 
killed the prophets, who were called to interpret His 
will to them. Even when the temple came "they made 
external worship a substitute for spiritual obedience*' 
(Furneaux). 

It was a complete justification of Christ and of 
Stephen's exposition of the gospel. He knew his Old 
Testament like an Alexandrian theologian and criti- 
cised materialistic religion like a Greek, but his idea 
of redemption and mediation was distinctly Christian 
(Rackham). 

But the breath of the hills did not suit Pharisaism. 
Stephen saw the flash of anger in the eyes of the mem- 
bers of the Sanhedrin as they saw the drift of his great 
address which Luke has preserved with wonderful 

118 TYPEiS OF PREACHERS 

skill. Stephen had not won his judges, though he had 
won his case and his cause before God and men. What 
must he now do? 

VI. THE FIRST MARTYR FOR CHRIST 

Stephen was not afraid to reveal the Jews to them- 
selves. Jesus had done the same thing in his terrific 
denunciation of the Pharisees (Matthew 23). They were 
children of their fathers. They have killed Jesus as 
they did the prophets before him. He spoke in pity 
while his words burned the eyes of his hearers like 
Isaiah's coals of fire. 

His keen irony had stung them to the quick. His 
sarcasm (Acts 7:50-53) cut to the bone (Acts 7:54): 
"And hearing these things they were sawn asunder 
{heirplovTo) in their hearts, and they began to gnash 
(e^pvxov) their teeth at him. The words of Stephen 
cut like a buzz-saw and their teeth clattered like wolves 
for their victim. 

They were already murderers at heart. The very 
truth of the exposition of God's purposes of grace 
angered them all the more, when at last they saw the 
point of his speech. 

Stephen saw the human wolves leap up at him as he 
looked up to heaven. He saw the glory of God and 
Jesus standing at the right hand of God in majesty and 
glory, standing as if to welcome his Faithful witness 
who has resisted unto blood. 

Stephen is rapt with the glory of the vision and 
cares not for his murderers. He calmly says, "Behold, 
I see the heavens opened and the Son of man standing 
at the right hand of God" (Acts 7 :56). Jesus saw the 

LYDIA, FRIEND AND HELPER 123 

be able to deal in this expensive clothing. The very 
term "royal purple'* is suggested by her business. It 
is not clear whether Lydia is her real name or merely 
*'the Lydian" to the people of Philippi. Horace em- 
ploys the name for Roman women and finally at any 
rate in Philippi she was called Lydia. 

She is not mentioned in Paul's Epistle to the Philip- 
pians. She may have returned to Thyatira or she may 
have been dead by then. It is .suggested that Paul 
refers to her under the name Euodia or Syntyche 
(Philippians 4:2). Renan has even argued that she was 
Paurs wife and is addressed in Philippians 4 :3, "true 
yokefellow!" But that carries one very far afield 
in the realm of mere speculation. 

Since she had abundant means, it is quite possible 
that she could have met the expenses of Paul's first 
trial in Rome unless, as Ramsay thinks, Paul had come 
into possession of his father's patrimony. We are to 
think, then, of Lydia at the head of a large establish- 
ment that employed many women, (cf. Acts 16:13). 

Philippin, like other cities in Macedonia (Beroea, 
Thessalonica), allowed more freedom to women than 
they enjoyed in Athens, Corinth or Ephesus (cf. Ram- 
say, "St. Paul the Traveller and Roman Citizen," pp. 
224, 22jy 232). Macedonian inscriptions show that 
women enjoyed higher social -position and considerable 
freedom. In Thessalonica (modern Saloniki) Paul 
won "of the chief women not a few" (Acts 17:4) and 
in Beroea many "of the Greek women of honorable 
estate" (Acts 17:12). It is quite appropriate there- 
fore, now that women have won citizenship in Britain 
and in America at last, to note their activity 

124 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

in Macedonia. In the recent war Lydia would have 
been at home and a leader beyond a doubt. 

She was not discounted in Philippi because she had 
a trade. Indeed, we may see the day when the idle 
woman is the one to be pitied and who has to apologize 
for her idleness. The chief business woman of the 
world is the one who manages her home successfully 
and within her husband's income, especially if he hap- 
pens to be a preacher. She is the excellent woman of 
Proverbs 3 1: 

"Her clothing is fine linen and purple. 
Her husband is known in the gates.'* 

It is not known whether Lydia was married or not. 
If so, she was probably a widow. But certainly her 
husband would have said of her: 

"Many daughters have done worthily, 
j But thou excellest them all." 

II. A ZEALOUS PROSELYTE OF THE GATE 

She was "one that worshiped God" (Acts 16:14). 

This is the technical description of the "God-fearers" 
or proselytes of the gate, as the later rabbinic lan- 
guage has it. Cornelius is so described (Acts 10:2, 
22). See also Acts 13 :1:6, 26, 50, etc. They stood at 
the gate, but had not formally entered into Judaism 
by the rite of circumcision. They were no longer 
polytheists, but were devout worshippers of the one 
true God. They attended the synagogue worship and 
contributed liberally to its support. And yet they 
ranked not technically as Jews in all ceremonial mat- 
ters, for they had not taken the final step. So Peter 

LYDIA, FRIEND AND HELPER 125 

apologizes for entering the house of CorneHus (Acts 
10:28). 

It is from these ''God-fearers" that Paul usually 
wins his first converts from the Gentiles. So it is 
in Philippi. His first convert in Europe is a woman 
and a proselyte of the gate. 

Lydia may have become interested in Judaism in 
Thyatira, for there was a large Jewish colony there. 
The cult of Cybele flourished among the heathen in 
Thyatira and this voluptuous nature-worship led to 
much immorality. There, as elsewhere, the higher 
type of the heathen turned to Judaism for help in the 
world of darkness about them. Certainly Lydia was 
earnest in her interest in Judaism, since she and her 
group of women went all the way from Philippi to 
the river-side (the Gangas or Gangites) some miles 
away in order to worship God in the ''place of prayer." 
This term is sometimes used for the synagogue and 
then again for any house or place when prayer is 
offered (3 Mace. 7:20). It is not possible to decide 
how it is employed here, though it may be noted that 
Luke has synagogue elsewhere as in Acts 17:1. 

The location of the place of prayer so far from the 
city suggests that the Jews were a small group in 
Philippi. In Thessalonica they are a powerful body 
for it was a great commercial city. Philippi was a 
Roman colony and a sort of military outpost. 

The river was convenient for the ceremonial ablu- 
tions of the Jews. But the point to note about Lydia 
is that she took the trouble to go to this out-of-town 
place of prayer to worship God with a small body of 
Jews. There were plenty of excuses that she could 

126 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

have found for not going whether she walked or rode 
a donkey. But she went. In these days of slackness 
about attendance at public worship the example of 
Lydia, the proselyte of the gate, is quite pertinent. 

We are not surprised to find that Paul and his com- 
pany went out there, even though it was not certain 
that there was a place of prayer in that locality. They 
"supposed" it to be there (Acts 16:13) and went on 
in the hope of finding it. 

III. LISTENING TO THE TRAVELLING JEWISH PREACHER 

We do not know what it was that caught Lydia's 
attention in Paul's message. It was a common thing 
in the synagogues for the Jewish stranger present to 
be given an opportunity to speak a word of exhorta- 
tion. At Antioch, in Pisidia, ''after the reading of the 
law and the prophets the rulers of the synagogue sent 
unto them (Paul and Barnabas), saying, brethren, if 
ye have any word of exhortation for the people, say 
on." There by the river-side at the place of prayer no 
such formality may have been observed. 

The fact that only women are mentioned in attend- 
ance seems to imply that it was not a real synagogue 
out here by the river, but only a place for prayer and 
ceremonial ablutions. Philippi was a Latin town and 
few Jews were there. The rabbinical rule was that 
ten men were necessary to form a synagogue. 

It looked like a poor opportunity for the great 
apostle to the Gentiles to make a beginning for the 
conquest of Europe. He had responded to the Mace- 
etonian cry and found no opening in Philippi at all. 
And there seemed to be small promise here. Some men 

LYDIA, FRIEND AND HELPER 1«7 

would have returned to Philippi without preaching to 
this handful of Jewish women, some of them 
proselytes. Indeed, it is likely that it was more con- 
versation than public address, for Luke says, "We sat 
down and spoke" (imperfect tense). 

Perhaps each of the four (Paul, Silas, Timothy, 
Luke) engaged in conversation with a separate woman. 
Paul spoke to Lydia and by and by all may have lis- 
tened. I heard D. L. Moody say that he knew of more 
souls saved by his conversation than by his preaching. 
One recalls Jesus and Nicodemus, and Jesus and the 
Samaritan woman at Jacob's well. It is more spectacu- 
lar to deliver a public address and this has to be done. 
But it should never be above the will of the greatest 
preacher to talk to a single person about his salvation. 

Lydia was at once interested in what Paul had to 
say. She kept on listening (imperfect tense). Paul 
was no doubt eager to win this woman to Christ. He 
did not feel that it was a small beginning. Mission- 
aries today have to start their work in just this way. 
One wins one. And Lydia was eager to hear it all. 

IV. lydia's heart opened 

"Whose heart the Lord opened to give heed unto the 
things which were spoken by Paul." Paul soon saw. 
that Lydia was deeply concerned in what he was say- 
ing. That is what stirs a preacher most, when he sees 
a soul responding to the word of God. 

Luke says that "the Lord opened" Lydia' s heart. 
That is God's part. But Lydia listened and gave heed. 
She did her part and gave the word of God a chance 
to do its work. It is certain that more people would 

128 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

have their hearts opened if they Hstened attentively 
to the message. It is a hard thing for most people to 
concentrate their minds upon a given proposition for 
a half hour or so. Few are willing to face squarely 
and frankly for one hour their personal relations to 
God. 

It is a solemn thing to have to deal with a soul in 
such a plastic moment. A false note may repel the 
inquirer. The preacher must become a fisher of men. 
He must know how to draw the soul to Christ. We 
need not worry for fear that the Lord will not open 
the heart of the seeker after light. That is God's task 
and responsibility. Let us be sure that we do our full 
duty in making the way plain and in making Christ 
attractive to sinners. 

It is not clear that Lydia was converted on this first 
visit of Paul to the place of prayer, though that was 
likely the case. 

Paul had this ground of joy, he had won Lydia to 
Christ, but he did not know what a prize he had cap- 
tured. She was a prophecy of the great army of noble 
women through the ages who would rally to the stand- 
ard of Jesus in Europe and in America. Jesus was to 
set the women of the world free in due time. It was an 
historic occasion when Lydia gave her heart to Christ. 
Woman -can never repay the debt that she owes to 
Christ. 

V. FOLLOWING HER LORD IN BAPTISM 

Evidently Paul had spoken of baptism as the next 
step after conversion. Paul did not make baptism 
essential to salvation. He was not a sacramentarian as 
is plain from 1 Corinthians 1:17: "For Christ sent 

LYDIA, FRIEND AND HELPER 129 

me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel." And yet 
Paul did not belittle baptism as of no significance. He 
found in it a picture of the heart of the gospel: *'We 
were buried with him through baptism into death" 
(Romans 6:4). So Lydia gladly submitted to this ordi- 
nance that in a mystic sense proclaimed death to sin and 
resurrection to the new life in Christ. 

Probably Paul himself baptized her, though his 
rule was to leave the baptizing to others (i Cor. i :1:6). 
There was apparently little delay on the part of Lydia. 
As yet no church seems to have been organized in 
Philippi, but that came soon. 

VI. LEADING HER HOUSEHOLD WITH HER 

Lydia's "household" was baptized also. That was 
true of the household of Cornelius (Acts 10:44, 47 > 
11:14), of the jailer (Acts 16:34), of Stephanas 
(1 Corinthians 1:16), and of Crispus (Acts 18:8). 

In the case of Lydia it is not clear whether she was 
married or not. The word for ^'household" may mean 
her servants or workwomen. Euodia and Syntyche 
may have been in the number. But it is certain that this 
noble woman exerted her influence to bring her house- 
hold, whether children, domestics, or employees in her 
business, to the service of Jesus Christ. She set an 
example for all parents in the home life to lead chil- 
dren and servants to Christ. She is a rebuke to all 
heads of business establishments who are afraid to 
take a positive stand for Christ. 

It is much easier to make a contribution for mission 
work somewhere else than it is to do the work that 
lies right before one's eyes. We are prone to be 

130 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

cowardly before our own children and to be silent 
about the life in Christ before those who work in our 
homes, our store, our factories, or on our farms. 
There is no better way to spread the power of Christ 
than just this personal work with those near and dear 
to us. If we take Christ into our hearts, we should 
take him into our homes, and into our places of busi- 
ness. In the army religion has come to the front to 
help the morale of the men who fight. None the less 
do we need Christ in the quieter times of peace. 

VII. THE GRACE OF HOSPITALITY 

"If ye have judged me to be Faithful to the Lord, 
come into my house and abide there" (Acts 16:15). 
Lydia was anxious to prove the sincerity of her con- 
version, as every new convert ought to feel. Grati- 
tude to Christ prompts one to do something for His 
cause. The time to take up the work is at once. Those 
who put it off may drop back and then drop out. Lydia 
saw this much that she could do at once. She had 
wealth and a comfortable home. She probably had 
servants to attend to the wants of her guests. So she 
"besought us," Luke says, to come and to make her 
home their home. 

She wanted all four of them. Hospitality is one of 
the finest Christian graces. It is commended and urged 
in the New Testament. It is not possible for all to 
do as much as Lydia in this respect. But hospitality 
brings rich reward to those who can exercise it. Many 
have entertained angels unawares. The sweetest 
memories in many homes linger about the visits of 
saints of God. The children carry with them through 

LYDIA, FRIEND AND HELPER 13! 

life the impress of these visiting angels who show the 
courtesy of Christ. Many of the best homes in the 
world swing open to those who are the servants of 
Jesus. 

It is evident that Paul was reluctant to accept the 
invitation of Lydia. There were four of the party 
and they would probably be in Philippi for some time. 
Paul was the most independent of men. He was the 
last man in the world to impose upon the generosity 
of others. He knew how to make his living so as to be 
free, as he did in Thessalonica^ shortly afterward 
(2 Thessalonians 3:8). But Lydia was in earnest and she 
would take no refusal, especially on grounds like those 
just mentioned. "She constrained us," Luke says. 
Literally, ''she forced us" to accept. She had her way 
in this matter, as she probably did in most things, for 
she had the gift of leadership. 

Paul and his party were now in luxury. They richly 
deserved this generous treatment and they greatly en- 
joyed the charm of Lydia's home. Paul and Silas 
were soon to be thrown into prison in Philippi. Paul 
knew what rough handling was, for at Lystra he had 
been stoned and left for dead. Blessings on Lydia for 
giving some of the comforts of life to these servants 
of the Lord Jesus. 

VIII. THE CHURCH IN HER HOUSE 

"And they went out of the prison, and entered into 
the house of Lydia; and when they had seen the 
brethren, they comforted them, and departed" (Acts 
16:40). 

It is plain that the brethren and sisters, now a church 

132 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

apparently, had met in Lydia's house during the 
time of the arrest of Paul and Silas. So in Jerusalem 
the home of Mary, mother of John Mark, had been 
the place of meeting as the saints prayed for Peter's 
release. It came to be a common thing for the be- 
lievers to meet in the house of one who had a home 
capacious enough for that purpose. Lydia made her 
home the center of Christian influence in Philippi. 

When Christ comes into the home, some other things 
go out. That is one reason that some do not wish 
Him to come in. Family worship is a blessing to the 
home. Lydia became the dominant spirit in this 
new church in Philippi. 

IX. THE CHURCH THAT CHEERED PAUL 

Paul had much to try him in the churches that he 
founded as in Galatia and in Corinth. But the church 
in Philippi was the first that contributed to his mis- 
sionary work and the most generous of all (Phil. 
4:10-20). This was probably due to the enlightened 
liberality of Lydia. She had means, it is true. But 
not all Christians who have money have also the grace 
of liberality. 

Lydia led the church out of the narrow selfishness 
that claimed so many. The story of Lydia has been 
repeated in the life of many churches since her time. 
Each of us can recall instances when the very life of 
the church turned upon the zeal of one woman. The 
men are hardened by love of money. The women are 
indifferent through love of worldly pleasures. One 
woman may have the insight and the courage to press 
on for higfher thingfs. In time the church will come to 

LYDIA, FRIEND AND HELPER 133 

her ideals. Such a woman is the pastor's joy and hope. 
Lydia was a promise of the great harvest that lay 
before Paul. Her noble spirit brightened his heart 
through dark days that were ahead. To be sure, 
Luke remained in Philippi several years. These two 
staunch friends of Paul molded this church into a 
great missionary dynamo. 

CHAPTER VIII 
SILAS THE COMRADE 

Our information about Silas or Silvanus (the 
longer form in the Epistles — i Thess. i :i; 2 Thess. 

1 :1:2 Corinthians 1 119; 1 Peter 5:12), is not extensive and 
yet it is possible to get a pretty clear picture of him 
by piecing together the hints here and there in the Acts 
and the Epistles. 

I. A HELLENIST AND A ROMAN CITIZEN 

In these two respects he was like Paul. It seems 
clear from Acts 16:37, ''being Romans," that Silas as 
well as Paul was a citizen of Rome. He also, like 
Paul, had a Latin name (Silvanus) and was evidently 
a Hellenist while Judas Barsabbas (Acts 15:22) was 
an Aramaean Jew, possibly brother of the Joseph Bar- 
sabbas of Acts 1 :23. It has been argued that 2 Cor- 
inthians 1:19 and 8:23 make possible the identifica- 
tion of Silas with Titus. But, on the other hand, the 
picture of Titus in Galatians 2 :3 is quite out of keep- 
ing with that in Acts 15 (Knowling). In Galatians 

2 :3 Titus is a Greek, while in Acts 1 5 Silas is a mes- 
senger from the Jerusalem church and one of their 
leaders. The suggestion that Silas is the author of the 
Epistle to the Hebrews is pure hypothesis with no con- 
vincing proof. 

134 

SILAS THE COMRADE 135 

II. A JERUSALEM LEADER 

He is described along with Judas Barsabas as "lead- 
ing men among the brethren" (Acts 15:22). The 
word (rjvovfjLevos) is a favorite one with Luke (Luke 
22:26; Acts 7:10; 14:12), but does not specify the 
office or rank of Silas. He was one of the chief men 
and stood in the forefront when we first meet him in 
the Acts. He was apparently one of the elders of the 
church in Jerusalem. He is not mentioned by name 
in the discussions of the conference, though it is more 
than likely that he was present during the private con- 
ference called by Paul (Galatians 2 :i-io), and he may have 
spoken in the public debate afterwards (Acts 15 :y). 

He was a man beyond a doubt who enjoyed the 
confidence of the Jerusalem church, of Paul and Barna- 
bas, and of the church in Antioch. He was clearly 
not a Judaiser. As a Hellenist he belonged to the 
more liberal wing of the Jewish Christians like Paul 
and Barnabas, while Judas Barsabbas probably repre- 
sented the more conservative element of Aramaean 
Christians under the lead of Peter, James, and John. 
Both sides were now united against the Judaisers and 
both sides were represented in the two ambassadors 
entrusted with the important letter to Antioch. It is 
a letter of commendation (Acts 15:27), probably 
written by James, like that carried by Saul from the 
Sanhedrin (Acts 9:2), and left matters of detail to 
be explained by Judas and Silas. The two commis- 
sioners are trusted ambassadors able to expound the 
will of the conference concerning the problem of Gen- 
tile freedom. The mission is a delicate and important 
one as this first Christian Epistle preserved to us 

136 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

shows, unless the Epistle of James antedates the con- 
ference. It is plain that Silas is a man of such parts 
and standing that his appointment gives satisfaction 
all around. Judas and Silas are qualified to interpret 
the Epistle (Acts 15:27). 

III. A PROPHET IN ANTIOCH 

The ambassadors fulfilled their function with emi- 
nent skill (Acts 15:30-33). They delivered the 
epistle to the new council (Rackham) assembled at 
Antioch. The letter was read aloud to the Greek 
multitude confirming their freedom from the Mosaic 
ceremonial law, though with proper emphasis on the 
moral code and with due recognition of the fact that 
Jewish Christians had perfect liberty to keep up the 
Mosaic ceremonial rules if they wished. The decision 
gave perfect liberty to the Gentile Christians, but left 
an occasion for further irritation between the Jewish 
and Gentile Christians in their social relations. 

But the decree was wise in its caution and was still 
in force when Paul came to Jerusalem the last time, 
though Paul himself saw that only love, not knowledge 
and not law, could regulate the relation of Christians 
with each other (1 Corinthians 8-10; Romans 14 and 15). 
Finally, the author of Hebrews will call upon Jewish 
Christians to come clean out of the camp of Judaism 
and take their stand beside the Gentile Christians 
(Hebrews 8-13). But now the Gentiles at Antioch are 
overjoyed at the confirmation of their own freedom; 
so they heard Judas and Silas with great delight as 
their ''prophets," "exhorted the brethren with many 
words and strengthened them." 

SILAS THE COIMRADE 137 

It was a new day for Christianity. The shadow of 
Pharisaism that had gathered over the Gentile churches 
was now removed. Silas evidently spoke with the 
prophetic spirit and encouraged and strengthened the 
spirits of the brethren. It was a crisis that called for 
courage and wisdom. If the Judaisers had wone, 
Christianity among the Gentiles would have dried up 
to a hardened type of Pharisaism or would have 
sloughed off from the Jewish trunk. But now the 
way for progress was open, but it called for prudence 
and restraint on the part of the Gentile Christians not 
to irritate the Jewish Christians needlessly. 

It is to the credit of Silas and Judas that they en- 
tered heartily into the celebration of the Gentile vic- 
tory at Antioch and remained long enough for them 
to know that the triumph was secure. There was 
prophecy and exhortation in Antioch as when Barnabas 
came from Jerusalem in the beginning (Acts 11:27, 
28). Silas and Judas made "an earnest appeal for 
unity and mutual charity" (Rackham). The Bezan 
text in 15:34 says, "But it seemed good unto Silas 
to abide there and Judas returned alone." This is prob- 
ably an effort to explain how Silas was later with 
Paul in Antioch (Acts 15:40). It is easy enough to 
understand that Silas came back to Antioch after the 
formal report to the Jerusalem church. There was 
time enough for this return in the "some days" of 
verse 36. Peace had come to the church at Antioch 
and Silas had been the bearer of glorious news. The 
gift of New Testament prophecy does not mean always 
technical prediction, though that was true of the 
prophet Agabus at Csesarea (Acts 21 :io, 11). In the 

138 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

case of Silas and Judas it is rather the gift of unctuous 
address under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, men 
endowed with the power of speaking the mind of the 
Spirit. The highest form of preaching may rise to 
the level of prophecy. Clearly Silas was a man of 
mark and a man of destiny. 

IV. THE CHOICE OF PAUL FOR HIS MISSION WORK 

It was a shock to Paul and a blow to his hopes and 
plans when Barnabas pulled away from him and went 
to Cyprus with John Mark. Barnabas had been Paul's 
friend in the hour of need. He had befriended him 
in Jerusalem after his conversion when the rest eyed 
him with suspicion and distrust. He had brought him 
from Tarsus to Antioch when the work there called 
for another worker. He had stood by Paul when the 
leadership in the mission enterprise passed to his hands 
with no thought of jealousy. He had zealously cham- 
pioned Paul's fight for Gentile freedom in Antioch 
and in Jerusalem. In Jerusalem it was still "Barnabas 
and Paul" (Acts 15:25). But he would not stand 
for the abrupt brushing aside of John Mark because of 
his mistake at Perga. So the rift widened between 
these two servants of Christ. ''Even Barnabas" had 
been led away from Paul at Antioch by Peter and 
probably John Mark (Galatians 2:13). That Paul had 
counted "hypocrisy," and now Barnabas was gone. 
The blow was serious to Paul's work and the heart- 
ache real. 

Men Drop Out — God's Work Goes On 
But no man is absolutely essential to the cause of 
Christ. The pastor who resigns in a hurry with the 

SILAS THE COMRADE 139 

expectation of being asked to stay may do that once 
too often. His resignation may be accepted. His 
place will be filled. The work will go on. This is 
true in business and in statecraft. Paul had a man 
right at hand to take the place of Barnabas. Silas 
possessed many of the traits of the *'son of consola- 
tion." He had influence in the Jerusalem church, 
though a Hellenist like Barnabas and a Roman citizen 
like Paul. He was in thorough sympathy with the 
onward movement of Christianity among the Gentiles 
as shown by his previous conduct. His leadership and 
prophetic gift gave him special adaptation for the 
missionary enterprise. It is clear that Silas accepted 
with alacrity the invitation of Paul to share his for- 
tunes in the new tour. The sympathy of the church at 
Antioch was with Paul and Silas, * 'commended by the 
brethren to the grace of the Lord" (Acts 15 40). 

So Paul went on through Syria and Cilicia strength- 
ening the churches (Acts 15:14). Silas did not, of 
course, measure up to the stature of Barnabas in this 
new partnership. He was manifestly more Paul's 
helper and less Paul's equal, as they set out on the 
fresh campaign of world conquest for Christ. It was 
now specially Paul's campaign. He selected Silas as 
later he chose Timothy and Luke. But Silas will be 
no figurehead in their tour. He is already a man of 
experience and of prowess, but quite willing to take 
second place with Paul whom he evidently greatly 
admires. Harnack ("The Acts of the Apostles," p. 
201) thinks that Silas was Luke's authority for the 
events at Jerusalem and Antioch in Acts 15. This may 
well be. Timothy came into the party (Acts 16:3) in 

140 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

the place of John Mark and would take a lower place 
than Silas. One of the notable things about Paul is 
his skill in the choice of his co-workers. He loved 
them and gloried in them. In return they showed 
a firm spirit of loyalty and devotion. Paul gathered 
round him a wonderful group of friends and workers 
in the gospel. 

V. PRISONER IN PHILIPPI 

The narrative in Acts 16:19-40 shows that in the 
eyes of the masters of the poor girl who had been 
set free by Paul from the demoniac possessions, Silas 
was equally guilty with Paul. The girl had described 
"these men" (Paul, Silas, Timothy, Luke) as "slaves 
of the most high God who proclaim to you a way of 
salvation" (Acts 16:17). Paul spoke the word to 
the spirit of evil in the girl (Acts 16:18). But the 
girl's masters (kvplol) laid hands on Silas as well 
as Paul when they saw the hope of their gain from 
the exploitation of the girl was gone. Perhaps they 
saw that Silas was Paul's right-hand man and had ex- 
pressed decided approval of Paul's conduct. Anyhow, 
they try to implicate him as particeps criminis in the 
loss of their business. This is primarily what con- 
cerned them and they wish to take their spite out on 
both Paul and Silas. They may have hoped that with 
Paul and Silas out of the way the girl would recover 
her power of divination. They made no distinction 
in the treatment of Paul and Silas and in the charges 
made against them. They were both handled roughly 
and dragged into the market-place before the magis- 
trates (praetors). Their business had been hit as 

SILAS THE COMRADE 141 

was true later of Demetrius in Ephesus, but they do 
not tell the real cause of their complaint against Paul 
and Silas. They rather pose as patriots and make a 
grandstand play to the populace. It is patriotism for 
profit, but this they conceal by arousing race prejudice 
of Romans against Jews and accuse Paul and Silas 
with being law breakers (16:21). Judaism was a legal 
religion in the Roman Empire, but to persuade Roman 
citizens to adopt Jewish customs was not allowed 
(Rackham). 

The charge was untrue in fact, and the obvious 
refutation was at hand since both Paul and Silas were 
Roman citizens themselves. It has often been asked 
why Paul and Silas did not lay claim to their Roman 
citizenship and put a stop to the alleged trial. Paul 
saved himself from scourging in Jerusalem by claim- 
ing his rights (Acts 22:25-29). Some say that Silas 
was not a Roman citizen and that Paul was silent to 
shield Silas. He was not willing to save himself and 
leave Silas in peril. But Paul expressly says in Acts 
16:37 that both are Romans. The obvious explana- 
tion lies in the fact that the multitude gave them no 
opportunity to say anything in self-defense (Acts 
16:22). 

It was no trial at all, but a farce. The praetors 
ordered them to be scourged and put in prison without 
allowing Paul and Silas to say anything. This was 
done in response to the popular clamor caused by the 
adroit charge of the girl's masters. Paul seems to say 
precisely this in his dignified refusal to leave next 
morning after the earthquake and the conversion of 
the jailer. The praetors had evidently become uneasy 

142 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

at their illegal conduct and sent sergeants to set the 
men free. "They have beaten us," ''men that are 
Romans," says Paul (Acts 16:37). This was unlaw- 
ful. One of the rights of Roman citizenship was 
exemption from scourging. They have done it "pub- 
licly," an added indignity. They have "cast us into 
prison" "uncondemned" or without a trial. The prae- 
tors were themselves in grave peril and Paul can afford 
to demand a dignified dismissal at the hands of the 
praetors themselves. 

The Courage of Silas 

The conduct of Silas during the imprisonment was 
courageous. With their feet fast in the stocks "Paul 
and Silas were praying and singing hymns unto God, 
and the prisoners were listening to them" (Acts 
16:25). It was a strange sound at midnight in that 
prison and won an eager audience scattered in the 
various cells. These were men who had praises to God 
instead of curses for men. It was one way to preach 
to these men by showing how the Christian can turn 
trouble into joy and can make a prison the very gate 
of heaven. One cannot think of Paul in the Philip- 
pian jail without seeing Silas with hirn, both happy 
in the stocks, spite of bruised bodies and unknown ter- 
rors on the morrow. They were happy when they 
were with Jesus. The earthquake completed the con- 
viction of the jailer who had been deeply moved by 
the conduct of these strange prisoners who had mani- 
festly mingled the gospel message with their songs 
and prayers. He fell at the feet of both Paul and 

SILAS THE COMRADE 143t 

Silas and asked what he must do to be saved (Acts 1:6: 

29. 30)- 

It was a great triumph and Silas shared it with 
Paul. Henceforth Paul and Silas were linked to- 
gether by this fellowship in suffering like soldiers in 
battle. This experience had knit their souls together. 
They knew that Jesus was with them in prison as 
really as at home. When they left Philippi next day, 
these two travelers on the road to Amphipolis and 
Thessalonica, they were brothers in Christ in a new 
way. Luke remained in Philippi, his probable home. 
Timothy apparently tarried for a while, but joined 
Paul and Silas in Beroea (Acts 17:14). Paul and 
Silas are refugees from the greed of men who will not 
submit calmly to the loss of revenue. It was the old 
fight of money against man. The welfare of the girl 
weighed nothing in the scale when the money was 
gone. That was heathenism — that is heathenism to- 
day, even if it appears in child labor or white slavery 
or brutal indifference to girls, women, and men in 
store and factory. 

VI. AN EXILE FROM THESSALONICA 

In Thessalonica Silas appears as the co-worker of 
Paul. Paul was the preacher, but Luke records that 
some of the hearers "consorted with Paul and Silas'* 
(Acts 17:4). The jealousy of the Jewish rabbis was 
directed against both Paul and Silas. When they had 
gathered the crowd of "vile followers of the rabble" 
they went to Jason's house to fetch both Paul and Silas 
(Acts 17:5) apparently for the mob to lynch them. 
The charge laid at the door of Jason before the polit- 

144 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

archs (technical name for the rulers of Thessalonica) 
is that he had entertained Paul and Silas, men who 
"act contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that 
there is another king, one Jesus" (Acts 17:7). This 
religious rivalry leads the rabbis to pose as friends of 
Caesar and opposed to political revolutionists like 
Paul and Silas. One is reminded of the like final 
threat to Pilate to tell Caesar if he let Jesus free from 
the charge of claiming to be a king. They well knew 
that Jesus claimed to be a spiritual King as these rabbis 
probably understood the real meaning of Paul and 
Silas. But hatred grabs at every technicality. 

Probably Paul in Thessalonica (see 2 Thessalonians 2) 
had laid some stress on the conflict between the King- 
dom of God and the kingdom of this world. Certainly 
he was seeing the Roman Empire loom up as the very 
power of Antichrist. The conflict between Christ and 
Caesar was very real in ideals and spirit. The upshot 
of it all was that, to release Jason from the bond which 
he had to give because of Paul and Silas, they both 
left Thessalonica for Beroea. 

Silas and Paul Work Together 

Silas was now in the full swing of Paul's missionary 
career and was only too glad to be with Paul during 
these days of severe trial. He was learning what it 
was to face the anger of Roman grafters in Philippi 
and the spite of jealous Jewish rabbis in Thessalonica 
as he had seen the biting bitterness of the Judaisers 
in Jerusalem. But it was all in the day's journey. 
The Judaisers might yelp at Paul's heels and the 
heathen and the Jew might bark at his onward march 

SILAS THE COMRADE 145 

but onward he would go. If not in one town, then 
in the next. Paul and Silas left the gospel entrenched 
in Thessalonia, as in Philippi, before they left. And 
Paul kept up contact with the churches established. 

VII. ON GUARD IN BERGEA 

The story of Thessalonica was soon repeated in 
Beroea. The success of the Jewish rabbis there soon 
brought them to Beroea and Paul left, ''sent forth" 
by the brethren as far as Athens. But Silas and 
Timothy (who has now come on from Philippi, prob- 
ably with good things for Paul and Silas) ''abode 
there still" (Acts 17:14). This time the brethren evi- 
dently felt that it was enough for Paul to go. The 
Jews would have a harder time in finding fault with 
Silas and Timothy, now that the leader was gone. 
And yet these two could firmly establish the work there. 
Probably Paul had been in Beroea a shorter time than 
in Thessalonica or Philippi. But Paul was not con- 
tent in Athens without Silas and Timothy and sent 
back word from Athens for these to come on to him 
there with all speed (Acts 17:15). It is not clear 
that they came, thought it seems likely that Timothy 
came alone, leaving Silas in Beroea. Paul speaks of 
sending Timothy from Athens to Thessalonica 
(1 Thessalonians 3:1, 2). If so, Silas remained on guard 
in Beroea for some while. He seems, however, to 
have gone on to Thessalonica with Timothy whence 
both went to see Paul in Corinth. It is plain that in 
this period Silas had a ministry of more independent 
responsibility as Paul's representative and agent. We 
may be sure that he fulfilled it with fidelity. 

146 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

VIII. LAST WORK WITH PAUL IN CORINTH 

"But when Silas and Timothy came down from 
Macedonia, Paul devoted himself to the word" (awel- 
xero to; Xoycj)) with new freedom and great power, testi- 
fying to the Jews that Jesus was the Christ" (Acts 
18:5). In other words now Paul made fewer tents 
and did more constant preaching, with the result 
that matters came quickly to a crisis in Corinth 
and Paul had to move his preaching from the syna- 
gogue to the house of Titus Justus next door. Here 
he labored with great blessing for a year and a half 
(Acts 18:11). The part that Silas and Timothy 
played in this ministry is evident. They had brought 
supplies from Macedonian churches so that Paul was 
not a burden to the critical Corinthians during these 
days (2 Corinthians 11 17-10). The church at Philippi was 
the first to help Paul in his missionary campaign 
(Philippians 4:15-16), doing it while Paul was in Thessa- 
lonica. Probably Philippi, Thessalonica, and Bercea 
were now enlisted in the good work, the first mission- 
ary union in the history of Christianity. Silas and 
Timothy were the bearers of this bounty and probably 
also the agents in uniting these churches in this co- 
operative effort. Silas and Timothy helped Paul in the 
preaching in Corinth as he gladly acknowledged later 
(2 Corinthians 1:19). Both Silas and Timothy send salu- 
tations to the church in Thessalonica when Paul writes 
to them (1 Thessalonians 1:1; 2 Thessalonians 1:1). 

When Paul left Corinth, he seems to have left Silas 
and Timothy there. Timothy rejoined Paul later in 
Ephesus (Acts 19:22), but we have no further record 
of Silas in connection with Paul. Some think that a 

SILAS THE COMRADE 147 

break came between these two men, but that is a 
gratuitous suggestion. Paul's work had multiplied 
greatly. Men were needed at many points. It is quite 
possible that Silas remained in Ephesus till Apollos 
came or nearly till then. He does not appear in the 
troubles in Corinth after the arrival of Apollos. 

IX. WITH PETER IN BABYLON (rOME) 

Our last glimpse of Silas (Silvanus) is as the 
amanuensis of Peter and the bearer of the First 
Epistle from Rome to the provinces in Asia Minor 
( 1 Peter 5 :1:2). It is likely that Silas, like Tertius in 
Romans 16:22, wrote out the Epistle for Peter. He 
may have been at liberty to touch up the phraseology 
and the result may represent something of his own 
style. Thus many explain the difference between the 
style of I Peter and 2 Peter (without the aid of an 
amanuensis). One need not think that Silas had de- 
serted Paul because he is with Peter. The work of 
Paul and Peter ran parallel more and more. As John 
Mark was a comfort to both men, so Silas seems to 
have been. He was a comrade of the great and toiled 
with them worthily. 

CHAPTER IX 
TITUS THE COURAGEOUS 

Not a great deal of attention is paid to Titus in mod- 
ern books, and yet he played a not unimportant part 
in early Christian history. He is not mentioned in 
Acts by name, though probably included in the ''cer- 
tain others" of Acts 15:2. It is in 2 Corinthians, 
Galatians and the Pastoral Epistles that he is promi- 
nent. 

A BROTHER OF LUKE 

This is, at least, probable. It is curious, that in 
the Acts neither Luke nor Titus is mentioned by name. 
We can see why Luke should leave out his own name. 
If Titus was his brother, then we can understand the 
omission of his name also. In 2 Corinthians 12:18 "the 
brother" naturally in the Greek means **his brother,'* 
as Professor A. Souter has shown. The same thing 
is probable in 2 Corinthians 8 :1:8. The book of Acts fails to 
reveal the part played by Luke and Titus in the life 
and work of Paul. The Epistles make us wonder why 
this omission exists when the other co-laborers of 
Paul receive frequent mention. 

A REAL GREEK 

Paul expressly states. Galatians 2 13, that Titus was a 
Greek. His name is Roman, like that of Paul, but 
that proves nothing as to his race. It has been held 

148 

TITUS THE COURAGEOUS 149 

by some that Titus is merely another name for Tim- 
othy, Silas, or Titus Justus, but that idea has not 
gained credence. He was a pure Greek. H he was, as 
is probable, the brother of Luke, then it follows that 
Luke was also a Greek, not a Hellenistic Jew. He was 
one of the first fruits of the Greek world that made 
such a large contribution to early Christianity. 

Jesus foresaw (see John 12) that the Greeks would 
come to him, but only as he drew them by the Cross. 
Paul sees that the Cross had broken down the middle 
wall of partition between Jew and Gentile. At any 
rate here is Titus, the Greek, who is a trusted inter- 
preter of Christ to the Gentiles. And Luke, his 
brother, has given us the Greek scholar's view of 
Christ, Peter and Paul and others, of the origin of 
Christianity. 

Paul's son in the gospel 

"My true child after a common faith," Paul terms 
him, Titus 1:4. It is not known where his home was, 
but he went with Paul from Antioch to Jerusalem to 
the Conference, Galatians 2: 1-3: Acts 15:2, and was al- 
ready an active participant in the life of the Greek 
Church at Antioch. He may have come into this 
church before the first mission tour, or he may have 
been a product of this campaign. At any rate, Paul 
picked him out as a recruit for Christ and he appears 
with Paul from time to time in his work, as we shall 
see. Paul kept a weather eye open for young ministers, 
and gathered a notable and noble company of them 
whom he trained to carry on the work with him and 
after him, 2 Timothy 2 :iff. A minister who has no sons 

150 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

in the gospel has failed in a large part of his work. It 
should be the policy of every preacher to pray and 
work for laborers for the harvest. A church that 
does not produce preachers is in reality a dying church 
without spiritual energy. 

A FIREBRAND FOR THE JUDAISERS 

This is the first time (Acts 15) that Titus appears 
in the Apostolic history. Paul mentions it a long 
time afterwards, unless, indeed, Galatians is the first 
of Paul's Epistles as Ramsay now holds. It can be 
readily perceived why Luke, who gives in Acts 15 
the public aspects of the Conference in Jerusalem, 
should pass by the details of the private meeting of 
the leaders where Paul first carried his point and where 
the case of Titus was brought forward as involving the 
whole controversy. Paul and Barnabas had resented 
the insolent demand of the Judaisers, who had come 
from Jerusalem to Antioch, that the Gentile Christians 
should be circumcised after the custom of Moses, Acts 
1:5:iff. These meddlers had come without the ap- 
proval of the Jerusalem Church, Acts 1 5 124, and Paul 
defied them. He determined to get the Jerusalem 
Church to disown them and to stand by the freedom 
of the Gentile Christians from the Mosaic rites and 
ceremonies. Paul took along Titus, who was probably 
appointed by the church. The very presence of Titus 
in the Conference at Jerusalem was intolerable to the 
Judaisers and to the compromising brethren who were 
in favor of smoothing things over. Paul's language 
in Galatians 2 13-5 is quite involved, probably a reflection 
of his vehement passion on the occasion and the desire 

TITUS THE COURAGEOUS 151 

to be fair all around. It has been understood variously, 
but the following is the most likely meaning. Some 
of "the false brethren" (Judaisers) boldly demanded 
that Titus be circumcised before he be allowed ta 
participate in the Conference, these "who came in 
privily to spy out our liberty which we have in Christ 
Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage," Gal. 
2 4. The weaker brethren begged Paul "because of 
the false brethren privily brought in" to yield this 
point on condition that a resolution be passed guaran- 
teeing liberty to the Gentile Christians. But Paul 
would have no paper resolutions that were mere 
scraps of paper to be violated when put to the test. 
Titus was really a test case. The whole issue was 
involved in him, Paul could not look his Gentile con- 
verts in the face with a set of solemn decrees in his 
hand and the fact of surrender in the case of Titus 
nullifying the words of freedom, so he took his stand 
against the compromisers, "to whom we gave place 
in the way of subjection, no, not for an hour; that 
the truth of the Gospel might continue with you," 
Galatians 2 :5. It was as serious a matter as that in Paul's 
opinion. If Christ could not save Gentiles without 
their becoming Jews, there was no Gospel of Grace at 
all, but merely the imposition of the old legalism under 
the form of Christianity. "But not even Titus who 
was with me, being a Greek, was compelled to be 
circumcised," Galatians 2 13. Courage won liberty for Titus 
and so for all Gentiles. Evangelical Christianity, spir- 
itual religion, was really at stake in this great con- 
troversy. Titus was the innocent crux of the matter 
in Jerusalem. A cause is often summed up in a man. 

153 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

Titus was a red rag to the Judaisers, but he was the 
flag of freedom for the Gentiles. Paul won Peter, 
John and James to his position. He already had Bar- 
nabas with him, so he carried the decision of the Con- 
ference and took Titus back with him as the badge of 
Gentile liberty. 

Paul's agent in the great collections 

We catch glimpses of Titus later in Paul's life, par- 
ticularly in 2 Corinthians. In chapter 8 Paul says 
that Titus "had made a beginning," 8:6, in the mat- 
ter of the great collections for the poor saints in Jerusa- 
lem, and that it was a year ago, the very first effort 
in the campaign, and by you "who were the first to 
make a beginning a year ago, not only to do, but also 
to will," 8:io. Paul had boasted "that Achaia hath 
been prepared a year past and your zeal hath stirred 
up very many of them," 9 :2. 

Titus then was the first of Paul's agents to take 
hold of this great money-raising campaign that did 
so much to teach the early churches co-operation and 
practical fellowship. He was eminetly successful 
and won such a hearty response in Corinth that Paul 
used it to stir the churches of Macedonia to like ac- 
tivity. The churches in Achaia were a bit slow in 
paying their pledges and Titus had to be sent later to 
urge prompt payment. But Paul was proud of his 
agents in the collection and demanded for them full 
support from the churches, 2 Corinthians 8 124. Some min- 
isters have a dislike for the financial side of church 
work, but Paul shows no sympathy with such an atti- 
tude. In chapters 8 and 9 of 2 Corinthians he handles 

TITUS THE COURAGEOUS 153 

the subject without gloves. Paul is full of gratitude 
for the courage and skill of Titus in this campaign, 
8:1:6. It is possible that on this first trip Titus did 
not have to stay long. 

Paul's champion in corinth 

Matters soon began to go wrong in Corinth because 
of the Judaising agitators and the factions created in 
the church, cf. i Cor. i :ioff. These disturbances 
probably go far towards explaining the non-payment 
of the pledges made to Titus. Paul sent Timothy over, 
but he seems to have failed to do much in the matter, 
1 Corinthians 4:17; 16:10. He may have made a short visit 
himself, but he certainly wrote a letter to them before 
our I Corinthians, 1 Corinthians 5 :g. He then wrote the 
extended reply to all their inquiries and sent our i Co- 
rinthians. But Titus had to be sent also, for Timothy 
brought back bad news. Titus may have carried the 
sharp epistle mentioned in 2 Corinthians 2 4 and 7 :8-1:2, which 
caused the Corinthians so much sorrow and gave Paul 
real anguish of soul, being written in tears. But- 
tressed by this powerful letter Titus stood the factions 
down and won a clean victory for Paul. There was a 
stubborn minority led by the Judaisers left. But the 
four factions dwindled to two. It was now a clear- 
cut issue with the Pauline party in full control. This 
news Titus brought to Macedonia to Paul, who had 
hurried over from Troas, tortured by anxiety and un- 
able to wait there as by arrangement, 2 Corinthians 2:1:2ff. 
Titus comforted Paul greatly, 7:5-7. "Therefore we 
have been comforted; and in our comfort we joyed 
the more exceedingly for the joy of Titus because his 

154. TYPES OF PREACHERS 

spirit hath been refreshed by you all," 7:13. Paul's 
heart ran over with joy at the victory of Titus in 
Corinth. It v^as good for them, too, to meet in the 
hour of triumph. It v^^as natural for Titus to feel 
proud of the outcome in Corinth. Paul was glad that 
he had not lost his faith in the brethren there in spite 
of their factions. "For if in anything I have gloried 
to him on your behalf, I was not put to shame; but 
as we spake all things to you in truth, so our glorying 
also which I made before Titus was found to be 
truth," 7:14. Paul wishes to assure the Corinthians 
of Titus' affection for them. "And his affection is 
more abundantly toward you, while he remembereth 
the obedience of you all, how with fear and trembling 
ye received him," 7:15. Evidently there had been 
moments of uncertainty and of uneasiness, but it had 
now turned out all right through the tact of Titus 
and their own rightmindedness. "I rejoice that in 
everything I am of good courage concerning you," 
7:16. So then Titus had met every expectation of 
Paul in this crisis of affairs at Corinth. He had 
routed 'the Judaisers as Paul had done in Jerusalem, 
all but the stubborn minority. And Titus was the 
man to tackle them. 

THE THIRD VISIT TO CORINTH 

One good turn deserves another. Nothing succeeds 
like success. So Paul writes our 2 Corinthians, for 
the integrity of this epistle is still on the whole prob- 
able. The first part explains Paul's elation at the vic- 
tory of Titus and expresses Paul's gratitude over the 
attitude of the majority. Chapters 8 and 9 take up the 

TITUS THE COURAGEOUS 155 

matter of paying the pledges of a year ago, the way 
for which is now clear. Titus is to go back to Cor- 
inth for this purpose with two other brethren, prob- 
ably Luke and Erastus, Acts 19:22. Timothy did not 
go, but sent his greetings along with those of Paul, 
2 Cor. I :i. Paul pleads for a kind reception for 
Titus, his personal representative, and for the other 
two messengers (''apostles") of the churches, 8:18-24. 
He plans to come later himself, and does not wish any 
Macedonians to find them still behind with the money, 
9:3!?. Titus probably took with him our 2 Corin- 
thians, which also has a plain warning to the Judaising 
minority, 10-13, and a threat of sterner measures 
when Paul does come if they are needed. Paul then 
goes round about to Illyricum, Romans 15 :1:9, and waits 
for Titus to do this finishing job in Corinth. It was 
superbly done so far as we can judge, for Paul later 
spent three months there. Acts 20:3, without serious 
opposition from Judaisers, though the Jews made a 
plot against him as he was leaving. 

THE EVANGELIST IN CRETE 

We hear no more of Titus for some ten years, not 
till after Paul's visit to Jerusalem, the imprisonment 
in Csesarea and in Rome, and the release. Paul writes 
a short letter to Titus whom he had left in Crete, Titus 
I :5. So then Titus had another ministry with Paul 
here. Paul apparently had to leave the island before 
the work of organization was complete. He left the 
finishing of this work in the hands of Titus. He was 
to set in order things there and to appoint elders in 
every city, just like a modern missionary in a heathen 

156 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

land. Paul seems familiar with conditions in Crete 
and gives Titus careful directions how to meet the 
peculiar problems of his field there. A form of Phar- 
isaic gnosticism had gotten a foothold, and it fell in 
with the follies and weaknesses of the Cretan tempera- 
ment as their own poet had said, i :io-1:6. "Let no 
man despise thee," 2:15. Titus was to show the same 
courage that he had manifested in Corinth. We may 
be sure that Titus did not disappoint Paul in dealing 
with the sins of the various social groups in the 
churches of Crete, 2:1-14, and in the selection of men 
who had the proper qualifications for the ministry, 
1 :7-9. Factious men must be dealt with sharply, 
3:ioff, as Titus had learned how to do in Corinth. 
Titus came to be regarded as the patron saint in Crete, 
and his tomb was long believed to be at Gortyna, 
though that is by no means certain. He did not re- 
main in Crete as we know. 

FURTHER PLANS FOR TITUS 

Paul apparently sent the letter to Titus by Zenas 
the lawyer, and Apollos, Titus 3:13, who were to 
carry on the work in Crete, while Titus was to join 
Paul in Nicopolis before winter, 3:12. We do not 
know, of course, whether Titus was able to join Paul 
then, but there is no particular reason to think other- 
wise. We do know that he was with Paul shortly be- 
fore he wrote his last letter to Timothy, 2 Timothy 4:10, 
for Paul expressly states that Titus had left for Dal- 
matia. There is no indication that Titus had deserted 
Paul in his hour of peril in Rome as Demas had done. 
Rather it appears that he was Paul's messenger from 

TITUS THE COURAGEOUS 157 

Rome to the churches in Dalmatia, the lower part of 
Illyricum, probably to the field that Paul had himself 
once visited, Romans 15:19. To the last Paul was full 
of plans for pushing on the work of the kingdom. At 
the very time he is pleading with Timothy to pick 
up Mark and come to him in his loneliness, he is dis- 
patching Crescens to Galatia and Titus to Dalmatia. 
The work must go on and merely personal considera- 
tions must give way to the interests of the kingdom. 
This is the spirit of the general. Titus responded to 
the brave spirit of Paul and did his part to the end. 
We know nothing more of Titus. We may be sure 
that he did not lose heart when the final blow fell 
upon Paul. He was a man of force, who knew how 
to drive things through, a lieutenant to be trusted at 
a critical moment, a man to be counted on in an emer- 
gency. It is good to know that there are always men 
who will leap to the fore when the captain falls and 
rally the men to the colors. Titus first comes on the 
scene as a sort of stormy petrel in Paul's life. He 
was with him to the finish and felt only that he did a 
day's work as he met it. Paul thanked God for Titus, 
"My true child after a common faith.'* 

CHAPTER X 

TIMOTHY THE Faithful 

Paul loved Timothy with the utmost devotion. He 
was more tender and sympathetic than Titus, though 
not so forceful. He was probably not so gifted or so 
cultured as Luke, but he was equally loyal and loving. 

HIS GREEK FATHER 

This is all that is told about his father, Acts 1:6:i. 
He was hardly a proselyte, for Timothy had not been 
circumcised before he became a Christian. He may 
have been one of the devout Greeks like Cornelius 
who attended the synagogue. It is hardly likely that 
he was an aggressive heathen who made things un- 
comfortable at home. The rather, it seems clear, that 
the Greek father left the training of Timothy to the 
mother and grandmother. But Timothy could not 
fail to receive some impress from Greek culture of 
the time through his father. The home was in Lystra 
in Lycaonia, and was on one of the great Roman thor- 
oughfares between the east and the west. 

A HOME OF PIETY 

His mother was "a Jewess that believed," Acts 1:6:i, 
when Paul and Barnabas first came to Lystra. Tim- 
othy and she may have been in that circle of disciples 
who stood round Paul's body in fear that he was dead, 

158 

TIMOTHY THE Faithful 159 

Acts 1:4:1:9f, when the mob had dragged him out of 
the city and left him. His mother's name was Eunice 
and his grandmother was Lois, who saw to it that 
Timothy was reared in the faith of his Jewish fathers, 
2 Timothy 1 :5. No doubt these good women took extra 
pains beyond the legal commands because of the Greek 
influence on his life. They taught him the Holy 
Scriptures from a babe, 2 Timothy 3:15. Paul could 
remind Timothy of his great privilege in this regard 
and urge fidelity to such teaching, 2 Timothy 1 15; 3 '.14. 
It is impossible to overestimate the value of teaching 
children the Bible.* 

One reason why people know so little about the 
Scriptures is just that they do not learn the Bible in 
childhood. 

A DISCOVERY OF PAULAS 

Paul was on the constant lookout for young 
preachers. He saw the tremendous demand for them 
if Christianity was to grow and extend over the world. 
Jesus had sorrowed as he saw the harvest ripe and the 
laborers so few. Matthew 9 :37f. Timothy was converted 
during the first mission and was one of Paul's con- 
verts because he called him "my true child in faith,'* 
1 Timothy 1 :2; "my child Timothy," i :1:8; "my beloved 
child," 2 Tim. i :2; "my beloved and Faithful child 
in the Lord," 1 Corinthians 4:17. When Paul came to Lystra 
on the second mission tour, "him would Paul have to 
go forth with him," Acts 16:3. This was after the 
break between Paul and Barnabas over John Mark when 
Paul and Silas started out together, 1 5 :36-40. At 

* Mrs. Ella B. Robertson has made a volume of selections for 
children called "The Heart of the Bible" (Nelson's Sons). 

160 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

Lystra, Timothy was picked up and was with Paul for 
most of his ministry while Mark had varying fortunes 
and final success with Barnabas and Peter and again 
with Paul. Few things in Paul's life gave him more 
comfort than the finding of Timothy. He had been 
educated as a Jew, and yet was not a Jew. Paul knew 
how to fight for principle, as in the case of the Greek 
Titus, but he knew also how to smooth out difficulties 
when no principle was involved. Timothy was neither 
Jew nor Greek, and so would be constantly objection- 
able to the Jewish Christians. So Paul ''took and cir- 
cumcised him because of the Jews that were in those 
parts; for they all knew that his father was a Greek," 
16:3. Paul felt no inconsistency at all in this con- 
duct and that about Titus, for "as they went on their 
way through the cities, they delivered them the decrees 
to keep that had been ordained of the apostles and 
elders that were at Jerusalem," 16 4. Probably before 
going on with the tour, the ordination servive took 
place for inducting Timothy into the ministry. There 
is not a great deal said about ordination in the New 
Testament, but Timothy's case seems clear. Paul 
prided himself to a degree on his insight into Timothy's 
character at the first. He saw the promise that was in 
this gifted youth. He reminds Timothy that he "stir 
up (literally keep ablaze) the gift of God that is in 
thee through the laying on of my hands," i Tim. i :6. 
Alas, how often is it true that the young minister lets 
the fire burn low, the flame of the Lord fresh from the 
altar. Paul was greatly exercised that Timothy keep 
up his habits of study and devotion. It is seldom that 
more wisdom for a young minister is found in fewer 

TIMOTHY THE Faithful 161 

words than these of Paul to Timothy, "Till I come, 
give heed to reading, to exhortation, to teaching. Neg- 
lect not the gift that is in thee which was given thee 
by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the 
presbytery. Be diligent in these things; give thyself 
wholly to them; that thy progress may be manifest 
unto all. Take heed to thyself, and to thy teaching. 
Continue in these things; for in doing this thou shalt 
save both thyself and them that hear thee," i Tim. 
4:13-16. From the ordination service on through the 
years Paul had Timothy on his heart and tried to 
steer his course aright. But there was no patronizing 
of Timothy by Paul. He spoke of him to others in 
the noblest way as, "our brother and God's minister 
in the Gospel of Christ," 1 Thessalonians 3 :2; "for he worketh 
the work of the Lord as I also do," 1 Corinthians 16:10; 
"Timothy our brother," 2 Corinthians 1:1; Colossians 1:1; Phile- 
mon I, "Paul and Timothy, slaves of Jesus Christ," 
Phil. I :i; "Timothy my fellow-worker," Romans 16:21. 
Paul's protege became his co-worker on the level of 
high service for Christ. 

NOT WITHOUT HONOUR AT HOME 

Jesus found that a prophet had no honor at home 
according to the proverb. Nazareth twice cast him 
out. Many a young preacher has had to make a start 
in spite of the indifference, skepticism, or even ridi- 
cule of neighbors, or, alas, of the family circle. Jesus 
himself tasted that bitter cup. But Timothy "was 
well reported of by the brethren that were at Lystra 
and Iconium" when Paul came. He had apparently 
already made a beginning in active service for Christ, 

162 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

These timorous first efforts were kindly received. In 
writing to Timothy later on the qualifications of the 
minister Paul will say, ^'Moreover he must have good 
testimony from them that are without," 1 Timothy 3 \y. 
It is hard to judge human nature at best and one's 
reputation is some guide to his worth, though it alone 
is not decisive. Character and reputation, alas, do 
not always correspond. But it speaks volumes for 
Timothy that his neighbors and friends were so cor- 
dial in their commendation to Paul. Paul will one day 
write to Timothy, 'This charge I commit unto thee, 
my child Timothy, according to the prophecies which 
led the way to thee, that by them thou mayest war the 
good warfare," i Tim i :1:8. Hymenseus and Alex- 
ander made shipwreck, as so many since have done, 
of all the blessed hopes and promises of youth. 

HIS FIRST CAMPAIGN WITH PAUL 

Timothy held a subordinate place in the company 
of four (Paul, Silas, Timothy, Luke). After Paul 
and Silas were released from prison in Philippi, Tim- 
othy remained awhile with Luke. He soon rejoined 
Paul in Thessalonica as the bearer of gifts from 
Philippi to the Apostle, Philippians 4:16, the first help of the 
kind that came to Paul in his great enterprise, Phil. 
4:15. Timothy and Silas remained in Beroea when 
Paul fled to Athens, Acts 17:14 f., but Paul sent word 
for them to come on to Athens. Timothy apparently 
did come, but was sent back to Thessalonica by Paul, 
1 Thessalonians 3:if., because of disturbances there concern- 
ing Paul's teaching about the second coming of Christ. 
Timothy and Silas later came to Corinth with more 

TIMOTHY THE Faithful 163 

gifts from Philippi and also Thessalonica and Beroea, 
2 Corinthians 2:8f.; 1 Thessalonians 3:6; Acts 18.5. The gifts 
were gracious and in sharp contrast to the stinginess 
and slanders of the Corinthians, and Paul was com- 
sorted by the glad tidings from Thessalonica and "de- 
voted himself to the word," Acts 18:5, with great 
power. There it will be seen that Timothy was useful 
to Paul during the great days in Macedonia and 
Achaia. 

TIMOTHY IN CORINTH 

Timothy was with Paul during most of the third 
mission tour. While at Ephesus the troubles at Cor- 
inth reached a crisis. Paul had various communica- 
tions with the Church at Corinth in an effort to settle 
the troubles then. Finally he sent Timothy, 'Tor this 
cause have I sent unto you Timothy, who is my beloved 
and Faithful child in the Lord, who shall put you in 
remembrance of my ways which are in Christ, even as 
I teach everywhere in every church," 1 Corinthians 4:17. 
Meanwhile he wrote i Corinthians and endorsed Tim- 
othy as his personal representative with full power to 
speak authoritatively for Paul as the passage just 
quoted shows. Paul put his whole case into the hands 
of Timothy. But he was evidently afraid that Tim- 
only would not be able to harmonize the turbulent fac- 
tions. As things stand in Corinth Paul has influence 
only with the Pauline party. ''Now if Timothy come, 
see that he be with you without fear; for he worketh 
the work of the Lord, as I also do; let no man there- 
fore despise him. But set him forward on his journey 
in peace, that he may come unto me; for I expect him 
with the brethren," 1 Corinthians 1:6:iof. It seems plain that 

164 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

Paul's fears were well grounded. Timothy came back 
all right to Ephesus, but the storm raged on in Corinth, 
and Paul sent Titus to see what he could do. Titus 
took hold with energy and had great news for Paul 
when he met him in Macedonia, 2 Corinthians 1:2ff.; 7 :6if . 
Apparently the Judaisers brushed Timothy rudely 
aside as a stripling. Later Paul will say to Timothy, 
*'Let no man despise thy youth," 1 Timothy 4:12, per- 
haps with a recollection of the experience in Corinth. 

LOYALTY IN ROME 

But Timothy was true blue and gave Paul the best 
that was in him. He was Faithful when others flickered. 
Paul, while a prisoner in Rome, was anxious to send 
Timothy to Philippi, for "ye know the proof of him, 
that, as a child serveth a father, so he served with me 
in furtherance of the gospel," Philippians 2 \22. Timothy 
probably lacked genius, but he had goodness. He 
was '*a good minister of Jesus Christ," 1 Timothy 4:6. 
Timothy had his "deposit" from God, 1 Timothy 6:20; 2 
Tim. I :1:4. Paul was anxious that the investment 
that God had made in Timothy should not be in vain, 
so he urged him to keep God's deposit. But, when 
the test comes, Paul says, *T have no man likeminded 
who will care truly for your state. For they all seek 
their own, not the things of Jesus Christ," Philippians 2 :2of. 
He could count on Timothy to the limit. He could 
trust him anywhere and all the time. That is loyalty, 
and loyalty is "probably the fundamental trait in char- 
acter" (Royce). Timothy would stand true when 
others had deserted. Luke, likewise loyal, was prob- 
ably not in Rome at this time. 

TIMOTHY THE Faithful 165 

IN CHARGE AT EPHESUS 

After Paul's release from the first Roman imprison-^ 
merit, he went east, then west, and then east again. He 
left Timothy in charge at Ephesus on his second visit 
east, 1 Timothy 1:3. It was a heavy responsibility for 
Timothy to have charge of the great church in Ephesus. 
But he no doubt measured up to it. Paul went on ta 
Macedonia and wrote to Timothy a letter full of in- 
structions for his guidance in the work there. Appar- 
ently Paul had not had time to go over all the details 
with Timothy. For this reason we have i Timothy, 
which is a rich storehouse for every minister today. 
There is a wonderful combination of personal direc- 
tions about health, study, and piety along with ecclesi- 
astical problems and doctrinal issues. 'Taul the aged" 
writes with repose and grace, and yet with tenderness 
and force, sympathy and courage. He is still grateful 
to Christ for putting Paul, himself, into the ministry, 
I Tim. I :1:2f. He is anxious that Timothy shall come 
up to the highest standard as a good minister of Christ, 
as a man of God, brave and strong to the end, i Tim. 
1:18-20; 3:1:4ff.; 4:6-16; 5:21; 6:11, 2of. Paul is 
anxious concerning Timothy's health. He apparently 
was a nervous dyspeptic and Paul recommends "a little 
wine for thy stomach's sake and thine often infirm- 
ities," 5 :23. There is nothing here against the strictest 
temperance or even prohibition, for modern medical 
skill has found other things better for the digestion 
than the "little wine." But preachers in poor health 
may find comfort in the case of Timothy. He held on 
and did a noble work in spite of his physical infirmities. 

166 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

One must not pride himself on his poor health as a 
proof of piety. The poor, sickly preacher may be no 
whit more pious than his robust, athletic brother. 
Titus was no less pious than Timothy and more effec- 
tive, sooth to say. But the preacher with a weak stom- 
ach need not despair of usefulness. 

LONGED FOR BY PAUL 

Paul is in prison for the last time. He knows what 
the outcome will be. He is no longer in his own 
hired house, but in the Mamertine Prison. Friends 
no longer came to see Paul, for it was now not 
safe to do so. Onesiphorus oft refreshed Paul by his 
courage till he was apparently slain for his daring, 
2 Tim. I :1:6-1:8. Timothy is still in Ephesus, but 
Paul longs for him to come to him before winter, 2 
Tim. 4:21. He wishes him to pick up John Mark 
and bring him along also, 4:11, for the once useless 
minister has now made good and is useful to Paul 
(Robertson, "Making Good in the Ministry"). Paul 
needs his cloak which he left at Troas with Carpus, 
4:13. But most of all he misses his books, especially 
the parchments, his own books which he had used 
through the years, his old books, in particular, copies 
of portions of the Old Testament, and perhaps even 
Mark's Gospel and Luke's writings. But, while Paul's 
heart aches for the presence and sympathy of Timothy, 
he is not unmindful of Timothy's own needs in Ephe- 
sus. This last message of Paul is full of courage: 
*Tor God gave us not a spirit of fearfulness (cow- 
ardice), but of power and love and discipline," 2 
Tim. I :/. He urges Timothy not to be ashamed of 

TIMOTHY THE Faithful 167 

Christ or of Paul, but to suffer hardships along with 
Paul as a good soldier of Christ, 2 Tim. i :8; 2 :3-1:3. 
Remember Christ and remember Paul. He urges that 
Timothy keep himself in trim for his great task by 
full knowledge of the Scriptures, 2:1:4f., and by clean 
living, 2 120-26, and so escape the snare of the devil. 
Paul is afraid of the devil's traps for preachers. Im- 
postors must needs come, but the man of God must 
know the Scriptures and be furnished completely unto 
every good work, 3:15-17. The preacher does not 
always feel fit for his task, but in season and out of 
season Timothy must preach the word and not tickle 
the itching ears of the fickle crowd with new fancies 
and foibles. Paul sees the end of his course and he 
is ready to go and receive his crown, 4 :6-8. But he 
wants to see Timothy before the Lord Jesus takes him 
to his heavenly kingdom. 

IN PRISON FOR PAUL 

It is probable that Timothy came quickly to Paul 
and paid the penalty for his courage by getting thrown 
into prison himself. At any rate the writer of the 
Epistle to the Hebrews says: *'Know ye that our 
Brother Timothy hath been set at liberty, with whom, 
if he come shortly, I will see you," Hebrews 13 :23. We 
may suppose therefore that Paul had the comfort of 
Timothy's presence with him when the end came. 
Probably Luke, Timothy, and Mark were those who 
had the wonderful privilege of accompanying Paul to 
the place of execution outside of Rome. We do not 
know the further work of Timothy. We may be sure 
that he held true to the last. He was a man of emotion 

168 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

and sympathy, for Paul spoke of his tears, 2 Timothy 1:4. 
In all things he was *'an ensample to them that believe, 
in word, in manner of life, in love, in faith, in purity," 
Tim. 4:12. He deserved Paul's love and confidence. 
Paul looked to him with hope for the future. "And 
the things which thou hast heard from me among many 
witnesses, the same commit thou to Faithful men, who 
shall be able to teach others also," 2 Timothy 2 .2. Thus 
the good work goes on. Teach the teachers. Pass on 
the teaching. "Hold the pattern of sound words 
which thou hast heard from me in faith and love which 
is in Christ Jesus," 2 Timothy 1:13. 

CHAPTER XI 

THOMAS THE PREACHER WITH HONEST 
DOUBTS 

We seem to be entering an age of credulity, if one 
thinks of the great scientist, Sir Oliver Lodge, as V 
a champion of actual communication with the dead. 
Certainly we have passed through an age of criticism 
of all that was outside of the laws of the physical 
universe as known by modern scientists. The transi- 
tion has not come suddenly. Evolution itself has 
played some part in the change. It is a long step from 
the cold materialism of Darwin to the militant spiritu- 
alism of Lodge. And yet Lodge is an evolutionist. 
The veil between matter and mind has worn thin in 
places, to say the least, by reason of new discoveries 
like radium, wireless telegraphy, transmutation of 
metals, the breaking up of the atom into electrons, 
Einstein's theory of the gravitation of the light 
rays. In biblical criticism we have seen the same re- 
lentless search for facts. Tradition has stepped aside 
while the scholar, like the scientist in the laboratory, 
put in the crucible of criticism the cherished convic- 
tions of Christendom. The books of the Old Testa- 
ment and of the New Testament have been subjected 
to the most minute dissection and the most careful 
literary analysis. The dry bones of redactors have 
rattled in the place of the mighty spirits of the Scrip- 

169 

170 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

tures. We are coming again to the age of reconstruc- 
tions and the dry bones are beginning to take on the 
form of life. But, meanwhile, many a minister has 
suffered the lapse of faith between the novelties of 
criticism of the Bible and the stern realities of inex- 
orable scientific law. The modern minister has wished 
to face all the facts of life with open mind and heart. 
He has wished to be loyal to his Lord and to be a 
leader of his fellow men. He has not been desirous 
of being an obscurantist or a reactionary. It has often 
been the most sensitive spirits that have suffered most. 
The passion for truth and honesty of purpose has 
clashed with the traditions of environment. Some few 
who have been unable to place the Christ of the Gospels 
and of Paul's Epistles in the world of science and of 
criticism have either given up the ministry or have 
become Unitarian ministers. Others have lived down 
their doubts by deeper study and by patient waiting 
for further light that has come from Christ as it came 
to Thomas. 

Thomas is the typical preacher who has struggles 
with honest doubts. This is partly due to tempera- 
ment, but one cannot easily change his temperament 
whether phlegmatic or bilious or nervous. Thomas 
had his pessimistic moods. He saw at once and sharply 
the difficulties in the way. He was unwilling to shut 
his eyes to the actual facts that confronted him. His 
first reaction was despondency. He came through in 
the end, but he had to fight his way through the fog 
and smoke to the light. Thomas was an outspoken 
man, besides, who in a rather blunt manner spoke out 
his mind. Such a man often reflects the feelings of 

THOMAS THE PREACHER 171 

others who receive credit for more faith than they 
really possess and he also betrays more doubt than 
he really feels. The Fourth Gospel alone gives us 
an insight into the mind of Thomas as he faced the 
problem of Christ during Passion Week and afterward. 
Thomas reveals the courage of despair in John 1 1 :6, 
when he proposes to his fellow-disciples, *Tet us also 
go, that we may die with him." Jesus had just said 
that Lazarus was dead. He had; suggested going 
to Bethany over the protest of the disciples that Jesus 
might be killed; for the enemies of Jesus had tried 
to stone him when he was last in Jerusalem; at the 
feast of dedication (John 10:31). To Thomas it 
seemed sheer madness for Jesus to go back into the 
lions' den. Lazarus was dead. The rulers will kill 
Jesus if he goes. And yet Thomas is the man who 
takes his courage in his hands and proposes, not de- 
sertion of Jesus, but loyalty to him even unto death. 
But he expects death for all of them. Thomas is 
willing to go over the top, but he anticipates death 
for all of the band in the going. It may be said that 
this is not the highest form of courage, but it is cour- 
age. It is not reckless daring, but the looking of all 
probabilities in the face. Thomas does not expect 
success. He expects that the proposed visit to Bethany 
will culminate in the death of Jesus and all the twelve. 
He pleads that they may all be willing to make this 
supreme sacrifice for the sake of the Master. It will 
be an end, to be sure, to all their cherished hopes about 
the Messianic Kingdom. They will all have to give 
up their dreams of place and power in that kingdom. 
They will not see Rome driven out of Palestine and 

172 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

Jesus King in Jerusalem. It is a rude awakening for 
Thomas. Doubtless there is an implied rebuke to 
Jesus in the resignation of Thomas to the rashness 
of Christ. But, at any rate, he regards the situation 
as hopeless in view of the determination of the Mas- 
ter. 

Ministers today have sometimes found themselves 
in a predicament where they had lost heart and hope 
in their work. They whipped themselves to their task 
with the courage of despair. The onward march of 
events has been against their predilections and preju- 
dices, and even their principles. Some of the noblest 
of men have had to decide whether to "carry on" to 
the end with those who would not heed their advice 
or to quit and be termed slackers or even deserters. 
Thomas was not a quitter at any rate. He proposed 
to see the thing through even if his gloomiest fore- 
bodings came true. It is true that some ministers 
have found themselves out of sympathy with their age 
and unable to make much of an impression upon those 
who had swept on to other modes of thought. Who, 
then, is the prophet? Prophets have often had to de- 
nounce their age. Jesus did precisely this thing. And 
yet Jesus was the iconoclast and did not shrink from 
going on, not till he came to his own Gethsemane. I 
wish to make a plea ^or the preacher who in a troubled 
time has yet held on to his task in spite of discourage- 
ment and even despair. He has held on from the sense 
of duty that drives the soldier to the field of battle. 
It is easier to throw stones at such a man than to 
stand in his tracks. This is not to advocate the idea 
that a man who no longer believes in the deity of Christ 

THOMAS THE PREACHER 173 

should continue to preach it, or to occupy an evangelical 
pulpit or theological chair. The courage of despair 
is consistent with honest doubt, but not with loss of 
faith in Christ. Courage calls for honesty. When 
one has made his choice firmly and clearly he should 
take his stand. He should not stay within the lines and 
fire at his Captain. 

The next time that Thomas comes before us is in 
John 14:1-7. Here Thomas exhibits the agnostic atti- 
tude toward death and the future life: "Lord, we 
know not whither thou goest; how know we the way?" 
(John 14:5). This bold avowal of ignorance of the 
future life after death follows the most intimate, ten- 
der, and precious promise of Jesus that he would come 
again and take them to the Father's house and to him- 
self in the Father's home. He had urged faith in him- 
self as in the Father and had pointedly stated that the 
disciples had grounds for confident fidelity since they 
knew the place and the way to the new abode: "And 
whither I go, ye know the way" (John 14:4). It is 
precisely at this point that Thomas interposes with 
his almost brutal statement of crass ignorance about 
both the location of the Father's house and the way 
thereto. 

Once more Thomas is modern in his outlook and 
seems to voice the doubts of the present-day scientist 
who scans the heavens in vain for a planet that can 
be a fit abode for the spirits of the blessed. The myriad 
blazing suns of the skies would seem more like the 
infernal regions than the home of Christ with the 
Father. Thomas was frankly puzzled as he tried to 
form an intellectual concept of the hope of heaven held 

174. TYPES OF PREACHERS 

out by Jesus in the words that have comforted the dy- 
ing through all the ages since that night when Jesus 
spoke them. Thomas was face to face with the death 
of Jesus and the blasting of all his hopes. He longed 
for something more than figures of speech. He found 
the age-long question, Does death end all? Jesus had 
answered with the definite promise that he would come 
and take the disciples to the heavenly home. But the 
appeal to their knowledge gave Thomas his chance to 
confess his real ignorance. Many a preacher has 
brought comfort to the dying with the words of Jesus 
who has longed for more assurance in his own heart. 
The answer of Jesus to Thomas is still the best answer 
to the modern agnostic. It is easy to find fault with 
those who are driven by the terror of death to find 
light in the darkened chambers of so-called mediums. 
I am slow to believe that the Christian has need to 
resort to the devious ways of paid professional medi- 
ums with all the proven fraud to their credit and in- 
anities in their so-called messages. Jesus spoke to 
Thomas the word that preacher and layman need to- 
day: *'I am the way, and the truth, and the life: no 
one Cometh unto the Father but by me" (John 14:6). 
Turn from mediums to Jesus. He is the expression 
of the Father in human form. He is the incarnation 
of the truth about the future life. He is, in fact, the 
life itself, the source of all energy and power. He is 
the Lord of life and death. He is the way to the 
Father. Jesus is the way; He, and not a system of 
science or of theology; He, and not an ecclesiastical 
organization; He, and not priest or medium. 

Materialism has had a powerful grip upon some 

THOMAS THE PREACHER 175 

minds during the nineteenth century. There are those 
today who can find no proof in the universe of mind 
apart from matter, who regard mind or spirit as a mere 
brain- function, who consider mind the product of mat- 
ter, who hold that matter is eternal and mind merely 
the phosphorescent fire that flashes in the darkness 
and at death goes out forever. It is not easy to an- 
swer all the difficulties raised by materialism. There 
are things to be said that lead one out and on to the 
spiritual interpretation of the universe. Jesus himself 
has to be accounted for. The spirit of man refuses to 
believe that man is a mere lump of clay. It is not easy 
to believe in the eternity of matter that was neyer 
created and that was always endowed with the energy of 
life. The upward trend of life argues for the existence 
of God. Evolution itself calls for a higher order 
in the universe than man's life on earth. The agnostic 
can never be wholly answered. Thomas did not reply 
to Jesus, but he had the only real answer. It is 
Jesus. The minister who loses his way in life has 
lost his touch with Christ. Jesus alone is the door 
to the temple of knowledge. One must try Jesus. 
Christ lamented that Thomas had failed to see the 
Father in himself. There are those who do see God 
in Christ. He is the only path by which men can come 
to God. 

The next time that we see Thomas in John's Gos- 
pel (20:25) the other disciples are saying to him, 
"We have seen the Lord." It is a marvelous state- 
ment. With the rest Thomas had passed through the 
gloom of that terrible Sabbath day when they had all 
suffered the eclipse of faith that followed the death 

176 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

of Christ. The Cross had destroyed faith and hope. 
All that they had finally dreamed and trusted was now 
buried in the tomb of Jesus. Thomas with the other 
disciples had heard the stories of Mary Magdalene 
and the other women, but they treated them as idle 
tales of excitable women about seeing angels, and 
in the case of Mary Magdalene as a probable recur- 
rence of her demoniacal possession. So Thomas was 
somewhat taken aback by the sudden avowal of faith 
in the resurrection of Jesus by the very men who had 
so recently emphasized their disbelief in the reports 
of the women. Evidently the disciples proceeded to 
give various details about the appearance of Jesus on 
that first Sunday night when Thomas was absent 
(John 20:24). The new converts were full of faith, 
but they lacked the power to convince a skeptic like 
Thomas, who still had all the skeptic's distrust of super- 
natural phenomena. Thomas was not to be taken in 
by ghost stories. Finally he ended the matter by say- 
ing, ''Except I shall see in his hands the print of the 
nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, 
and put my hand into his side, I will not believe." 
Here the minute particularity of details shows that 
Thomas takes up what the disciples had said. Thomas 
affirms that he will not believe unless he has the same 
experience that the disciples claimed to have had, with 
the addition that he wished to test the sense of touch 
as well as that of sight. He wished to handle this 
ghost to learn if his eyes deceived him. This decision 
seemed a hard one to the disciples, who were full of 
their new faith and joy. And yet Thomas could reply 
that there was too much at stake to have false hopes 

THOMAS THE PREACHER 177 

revived. He had gone through the collapse of his 
hopes. He did not desire to have another downfall. 
Besides, optical illusions were possible. The mind 
might even project images before the eyes like the 
mirage of the desert. He wished to have a real sci- 
entific examination before he could believe. 

It cannot be said that Thomas differed essentially 
from the position of the disciples before their experi- 
ence on Sunday night. True, he had their testimony 
to add to that of the women. But they signally failed 
in the power of convincing Thomas of the reality 
of their experience as we today, alas! so often fail 
to convince skeptics of the power of Christ. He held 
out longer than the rest, and demanded the same proof 
that they asserted had convinced them with a certain 
tone of superior intelligence that often goes with a 
skeptical attitude toward Christ. It is the vice of 
the professional skeptic that he assumes an air of in- 
tellectual arrogance toward those whom he considers 
the dupes of their own credulity. Thomas probably 
prided himself on his refusal to be carried away by 
what looked like a case of nerves on the part of both 
men and women who actually believed it possible for 
Jesus to appear to them. And yet Thomas had seen 
Lazarus come out of the tomb. Perhaps he argued 
that it was Jesus who raised Lazarus and now Jesus 
was dead. Besides, Lazarus went on living his old 
life with his human body. He was not a mere ghost 
who came into a room with closed doors. Hence 
Thomas wished to be able to handle Jesus before he 
could believe in his resurrection. 

Had Thomas demanded too much? Have we a 

178 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

right to make a material test for spiritual phenomena 
and experiences? Many a man has stumbled right 
here and has not known how far to go and where 
to draw the line between material science and the things 
of the spirit. But Thomas was not holding himself 
aloof from the disciples because of his skepticism. We 
do not know why he failed to be present the first Sun- 
day night, when he missed so much. If he had known 
that Jesus would come he surely would have been on 
hand. There are those today who miss the blessing 
because they are not with God's people when the Lord 
makes bare the arm of his power. It is easy to expect 
nothing from the gathering of the people of God. 
There was no promise that Jesus would meet with 
the disciples on the second Sunday night. But Thomas 
was present this time. It was not hard to get him to 
come. His own curiosity would bring him, and he was 
probably urged to come. If anything out of the way 
happened he would at least be there so as to form his 
own opinions concerning what took place. Thomas 
has the skepticism of inexperience that afflicts so many 
today. Those who have not felt the power of Christ 
in their own lives may find it hard to believe that 
Christ touches the lives of others. So Thomas comes 
to their second gathering in a critical mood and on 
the watch against any hallucinations or clap-trap. He 
had not long to wait before Jesus appears, the doors 
being closed as before, and challenges the doubt of 
Thomas with the words: ''Reach hither thy finger, 
and see my hands: and reach hither thy hand, and put 
it into my side: and be not faithless, but believing'* 
(John 20 :27J. It was all so sudden that the shock 

THOMAS THE PREACHER 179 

upset Thomas's program of examination. He knew 
the voice of Jesus. He knew that familiar and dear 
face. There were the outstretched hands and the side. 
But Thomas did not put his hand into that wounded 
side. In a crisis faith has to act and to decide. Faith 
is higher than knowledge. Faith has various sources 
of knowledge. It uses the intellect, the affections, and 
the will. The intellect is arrogant at times and seeks 
to rule out the affections and the will, but they have 
to be heard. We must use our intellects, for God gave 
them to us. But he also gave us our affections and our 
will. Thomas really understood no more than he did 
before how Christ came into that room, and how he 
rose from the dead, but here Jesus was and Thomas 
must decide what to do and at once. Thomas sur- 
renders to the Risen Christ: "My Lord and my God" 
(John 20:28). 

This is no mere exclamation of amazement, as the 
reply of Jesus shows. Thomas gave Jesus the wor- 
ship of his heart and Jesus accepted his new faith and 
loyalty at its face value. We do not have to say that 
Thomas fully grasped the significance of his language 
and comprehended how the Risen Christ is both God 
and man. Faith has risen above mere intellect ever- 
more. Faith has seized upon the heart of the situa- 
tion. The man who has struggled with his honest 
doubts has risen by faith of experience to the noblest 
confession in the Gospels. It is Thomas the doubter, 
the pessimist, the skeptic, who has become the man 
of sublime faith. We may thank God that it is pos- 
sible for such a thing to happen. Jesus was patient 

180 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

with Thomas, for he knew that he was not posing as 
a skeptic for social prestige, but at heart really longed 
to believe. He was not occupying a false position, but 
was working toward the light. So Jesus met Thomas 
with proof that won him. But Jesus puts no crown 
on the doubt of Thomas. He rejoices in his new con- 
viction and frank confession, but Thomas has missed 
the highest form of faith. He had refused to believe 
in the Risen Christ unless he conformed to his own 
test. He had refused to believe the witness of those 
who had seen the Risen Christ. So Jesus says: "Be- 
cause thou hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed 
are they that have not seen, and yet have believed" 
(John 20:29). This beatitude Thomas has missed. 
It belongs to those who will never see with their eyes 
Christ on earth, but who will be satisfied with the testi- 
mony of the eyes of the heart. They will reach up 
the hands of faith and will grasp the hidden hands of 
Christ. These are the heroes of faith who do not 
make unreasonable demands of Jesus in the realm 
of the Spirit. 

Surely this rebuke to Thomas may be a rebuke to- 
day to those who press their skepticism too far. Criti- 
cism and science have their rights and their duties, 
but the intellect is not the whole of man any more 
than the body is the whole of life. The kingdom of 
God consists in love and joy and peace and righteous- 
ness, and not in meat and drink. Peter heard Jesus 
speak this rebuke to Thomas. And Peter will one day 
speak of Jesus, "whom having not seen ye love; in 
whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye 

THOMAS THE PREACHER 181 

rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory" (i 
Peter 1:8). That blessed privilege is open to every 
believer today whatever doubts may beset him. He 
can find his way back to Christ— in whose face one 
finds the glory of God. 

CHAPTER XII 
PHILIP THE EVANGELIST 

Luke calls him ^'Philip the evangelist one of the 
Seven" (Acts 21:8). The two epithets cover very 
well what we know of his career. It is here seen that 
the Seven had come to occupy a place to themselves 
after the fashion of the Twelve. They were chosen, as 
is shown in Acts 6:1-6, to relieve the Twelve of "serv- 
ing tables" whatever that may mean. Our word 
"banker" means originally a "bencher" because the 
money-changers sat at tables. So Jesus overturned 
the tables of the money-changers in the temple (John 
2:15). Thus to serve tables probably means to at- 
tend to financial affairs. In the present instance the 
business concerned the distribution of the funds for 
the poor widows among the saints in Jerusalem. The 
Hellenistic Christian Jews of the Dispersion who were 
in the city complained that the Aramaean (Palestinian) 
widows received more than their share of the money. 
The Twelve Apostles had supervised the equitable dis- 
tribution of the funds. At once they saw that to con- 
tinue this duty would jeopardize their spiritual func- 
tions and prejudice the Hellenists against them. So 
they wisely asked the Hellenists to choose seven of 
their own number for this special task. This provision 
would allow the Twelve freedom to devote themselves 
to prayer and the ministry of the Word. It is not 

PHILIP THE EVANGELIST 183 

certain that the deacons described later in Phil, i :i 
and 1 Timothy 3 are identical in office with the Seven; 
but all the indications point that way. The word 
"serve" (diakoneo) employed in Acts 6:2 and deacon 
(diakonos) are identical in root. One possible ety- 
mology derives the word from dia and kon'is (dust), 
meaning to raise a dust. Certainly some deacons can 
fill that requirement. The word has a wider applica- 
tion in the New Testament to ministers in general, and 
all service for Christ. But the office of deacon to 
which Philip was appointed was designed to relieve 
the Apostles (and elders a bit later) of the more secu- 
lar phases of the work of the churches. 

So Philip began his career as a church official as 
one of the Seven, a deacon. He was a loyal sup- 
porter of Stephen, the leader of the Seven, when 
Stephen took the lead in the aggressive interpretation 
of the spiritual nature of Christianity as designed for 
men of all races. The sudden martyrdom of Stephen 
for this wider vision of the mission of Christianity 
did not frighten Philip. The Twelve Apostles had 
aroused the bitter hostility of the Sadducees by their 
bold proclamation of the fact that Jesus had risen from 
the dead and the guilt of the Sanhedrin from his cruci- 
fixion. Stephen stirred the Pharisees to fury by his 
apparent denial of the necessity of the Jewish cere- 
monial law for Gentiles. Philip took the death of 
Stephen as a challenge to his own faith and courage 
and did not hesitate to take up the work of Stephen. 
It remains one of the puzzles of the early apostolic 
history why the apostles did not rally to the support 
of Stephen and Philip in their vigorous campaign. 

184 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

Did they feel that they were going beyond the func- 
tions of the Seven? Or did they think it unwise for 
them to antagonize the Pharisees too much as well as 
the Sadducees? Or did they feel that the Seven were 
going too fast toward the Gentiles? We have no 
means of answering these questions. We only know 
that Saul's persecution finally drove all the disciples 
out of Jerusalem except the apostles. Stephen and 
Philip are not the only deacons who have taken to 
preaching. They were set apart as members of the 
Seven (Acts 6:6). There is no evidence that they 
received any further "ordination." To the end Philip 
is one of the Seven. In modern ecclesiastical language 
they were lay preachers like D. L. Moody. But for 
the moment Stephen and Philip took the lead in ag- 
gressive evangelisation. 

It is interesting to note that Philip went to Samaria 
as Luke tells us in Acts 8, the chapter devoted to the 
work of Philip. It may have been that he was safer 
from persecution in Samaria than in Judaea or Galilee 
as the Jews had no synagogues in Samaria and no 
dealings with them. The Samaritans had been finally 
circumcised, but the Jews refused to consider them 
as a part of their own people. They were half -Jews 
and were all the more cordially hated for that very 
reason as people today have an extra touch of spite 
for their own kindred in a family fuss. The striking 
thing is that Philip boldly applied the teaching of 
Stephen and followed the example of Jesus who had 
himself preached with marked success in Sychar (John 
4). True, Jesus had once forbidden the Twelve to 
go into any way of the Gentiles or into a city of the 

PHILIP THE EVANGELIST 185 

Samaritans (Matthew 10:5) while on the special tour 
of Galilee. But, before he ascended on high, he ex- 
pressly charged them to be his witnesses in Judaea and 
Samaria and the uttermost part of the earth (Acts 
1 :8). It is possible, as one tradition has it, that Philip 
was one of the Seventy sent forth also by Jesus (Luke 
10:1-24). But Philip, like Stephen and all the Seven, 
was a Hellenist while the Twelve were all Palestinians. 
So he had less difficulty in overcoming race prejudice. 
He is the first missionary of the Cross on record who 
carried the gospel message to an alien race. 

Philip had power with the people as he kept on 
preaching Christ to the people of the city of Samaria. 
The multitudes (note the plural, the crowds) gave heed 
to (held their minds on) the things that were spoken 
from time to time by Philip. He had caught their 
ear and had a hearing and they hung on his words. 
This they did with one accord. He carried the crowd 
with him as they heard him speak and v/atched the 
signs that he wrought. Like Stephen (Acts 6:8) 
Philip wrought miracles. Unclean spirits were cast 
out. Paralytics were healed. The lame walked. It 
was like the days of Jesus on earth again and in 
Samaria. "There was much joy in that city." Per- 
haps the very fact that Philip was persecuted by Jews 
and was an exile from Jerusalem made the Samaritans 
all the more inclined to listen to his message. And 
then, too, the Samaritans in Sychar had once welcomed 
Jesus while the Jews later crucified him. 

The great work of Philip in Samaria is all the more 
remarkable in the light of the fact that they had been 
led astray by Simon Magus, one of the numerous 

il86 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

Jewish soothsayers and exorcists (cf. the seven sons 
of Sceva in Acts 19 at Ephesus). The Magi (cf. the 
visit of the Wise Men to Jerusalem and Bethlehem to 
do honor to the New-born King) were originally great 
and wise men of much lore and insight. But as some 
doctors are quacks and some preachers are hypocrites, 
some of the Magi became magicians or tricksters who 
played oh the ignorance and sujperstition of the masses. 
So here this man Simon had his repertoire of stunts by 
which he fooled the people and convinced them of his 
claims to be "some great one" {Magus means great 
one originally). He continually astonished the people 
by his new "powers" and held the population in awe 
from the smallest to the greatest. He was almost wor- 
shipped as "the Power of God that is called Great." 
It is pathetic, really tragic, to see how otherwise intelli- 
gent men can become the victims of charlatans in re- 
ligion and in politics. Even Sergius Paulus was under 
the spell of El)rmas Barjesus in Cyprus and many a 
modern man has sought communication with spooks 
by the help of mediums in darkened chambers like 
Saul with the Witch of Endor. In our own time Mrs. 
Eddy has claimed to be some "great one" superior 
to Jesus Christ and some have followed her hallucina- 
tions as Alexander Dowie has founded a -city on his 
own absurdities. But Philip broke the spell of the 
power of Simon Magus over the people. Simon saw 
that his "power" was gone. He was a fallen idol. 
At once he himself became a follower of Philip in 
order to get the benefit of the new "cult" which had 
put him out of business. Luke records that "Simon 
himself believed and was baptized and kept close to 

PHILIP THE EVANGELIST 187 

Philip and beholding the signs and great powers tak- 
ing place continued amazed." This language tells 
the secret as the sequel makes plain enough. Simon 
"believed" that he wanted what Philip had. He sub- 
mitted to baptism as a magical rite akin to those in 
the various cults of the times. He thought that, if 
he were baptized, he himself would be able to work 
the wonders that Philip continued to perform. But, 
somehow the "power" did not come to Simon. So he 
kept close on the heels of Philip to see if he could 
catch on to the particular spell or incantation by which 
he supposed the miracles to be wrought. He is the 
typical case of the man who joins the church for what 
he can get out of it and without any spiritual experi- 
ence of grace or change of heart. Baptism to Simon 
was not a symbol of the grace already received, but a 
magical means of obtaining the power to work 
miracles. 

It is small wonder that, when the apostles in Jerusa- 
lem heard that Samaria had received the gospel, they 
sent at once Peter and John to investigate the situation. 
The Samaritans, as already stated, had been circum- 
cised and so could not be treated as heathen in the 
spread of the gospel. And yet race prejudice and 
race hatred .made .it wise for the apostolic leaders to 
look the situation over to avoid trouble in Jerusalem. 
Peter is the very one who later had the vision on the 
housetop at Joppa and who preached to Cornelius and 
his family in Csesarea and had these Romans bap- 
tised and who was called to account by the Pharisaic 
element in the church in Jerusalem. John was one 
(James the other, Luke 9:54) who wanted to call 

188 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

down fire from heaven to consume a Samaritan village 
that would not receive Jesus because his face was set 
toward Jerusalem. And in Jerusalem one of the mean- 
est things that his enemies could say of him was that 
he was a Samaritan and had a demon (John 8:48). 
But here both Peter and John approve the work of 
Philip, a tribute to the skill with which Philip had 
carried on his work, and they prayed that the converts 
might receive the Holy Spirit. Philip was not hyper- 
sensitive or jealous and was apparently glad to see 
Peter and John. One recalls how later Barnabas was 
sent from Jerusalem to investigate the conversion of 
the Greeks in Antioch in Syria and how he remained 
with joy till the work was well established. 

The outpouring of the Holy Spirit in Samaria was 
virtually a Samaritan Pentecost distinct from con- 
version and apparently accompanied by speaking with 
tongues as in Jerusalem and at Csesarea. Suddenly 
Simon Magus *'saw" a great light and felt that at 
last he had caught on to the incantations of laying on 
of hands, provided it would work for him as it did for 
Peter. So he boldly offered Peter money for his gift, 
treating him as a fellow conjurer who was out for 
the money. It was an intolerable affront and Peter 
scorned him and his money and warned him that he 
was in the gall of bitterness and the bond of iniquity, 
without part or lot in this thing, with a crooked heart 
before God. His belief and baptism were a mere 
cloak to make merchandise of the gift of God. There 
is no doubt that Simon was a consummate hypocrite 
and deserved the anathema of Peter. There is no 
evidence of a real change of heart in him. His very 

PHILIP THE EVANGELIST 189 

name is forever coupled with the crime of trying to 
purchase religious preferment and it is called simony. 
He was ranked as the first great heresiarch of early 
Christianity and legend is busy with his name in the 
Clementine Epistles. The germs of the later Gnos- 
ticism appear in his claims and pretensions. 

Philip stands forth as a man led of God in the 
special mission to the eunuch of Ethiopia. He is here 
a prophet like Elijah or Elisha who is seized by the 
Spirit of God and led forth to do God's will. The 
Christian preacher does not claim to have the same 
overwhelming and clear guidance, but he is never sure 
and powerful when he is out of touch with God. 
The God-called and God-filled man is the one who has 
the message for men today. H we kept our hearts 
open for God's voice, we might hear the still, small 
voice of the Master. 

The task assigned to Philip is not easy. He is to 
go and evangelize one man of great prominence. He 
is not a Jew, but probably a proselyte of the gate who 
has been to worship at the temple in Jerusalem. But 
it is always difficult to know how to handle the indi- 
vidual case with its own peculiar problems. Great 
preachers sometimes fail just here. But most men 
are won to Christ in precisely this w^ay, one by one. 
Moody and Broadus have said that they knew of more 
conversions in their own experience from conversation 
than from preaching, great preachers as they were. 
Philip did not hesitate, but went on and trusted for 
the opening to come. He soon had it for the eunuch 
was reading aloud in Isaiah 53. Soon Philip was 
preaching Jesus from that scripture. He had no 

190 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

hesitation in finding the Messiah in Isaiah as Jesus 
had none. The eunuch was converted and asked for 
baptism as soon as water was reached and Philip bap- 
tised him. He had evidently spoken of baptism in 
his exposition of the gospel message. There was no 
church at hand, but Philip did not hesitate to baptize 
the new convert as Peter had the household of Cor- 
nelius baptized in Caesarea. Ecclesiastical problems 
amount to little in a time like that. Here was, besides, 
a Gentile converted and baptized who went on his 
way rejoicing and who probably took the message of 
eternal life with him to Ethiopia as the first mission- 
ary to the heathen. No stir was raised in Jerusalem 
over the case of the eunuch because Philip did not go 
to Jerusalem, but went to Azotus and then to Caesarea 
where he made his home. But he preached as he went 
and evangelized the cities of the plain on the way. He 
deserves the title of the Evangelist. 

It is over twenty years before we hear of Philip 
again. Paul is on his way to Jerusalem for the last 
time. Paul and Luke with the rest of the party reach 
Caesarea on their way to Jerusalem to take the money 
from the Gentile churches to the poor saints in Jerusa- 
lem. They stop at Caesarea as guests of Philip and 
his four daughters who are prophetesses, a wonderful 
home of Christian activity, a dynamo of spiritual 
energy. It is plain that Luke made full use of his op- 
portunity in this home at this time and later when 
Paul is a prisoner in Caesarea to obtain data for the 
early part of Acts. But it was a strange meeting of 
rich and varied reminiscences for Paul and Philip. 
Paul was the leader in the persecution that killed Ste- 

PHILIP THE EVANGELIST 1911 

phen and that drove out Philip the successor of 
Stephen. And now Paul and Philip meet again after 
long years of service in carrying on the work of 
Stephen and taking the gospel to the Gentiles. Philip 
was. the first messenger to cross the Jewish border with 
the story of Christ for those not Jews. Paul is the 
chosen vessel of Christ to the Gentile world. They 
have much in common and one is bound to think that 
these days in Caesarea were full of fellowship and joy. 

There are various legends as to what Philip and his 
daughters did when the war with Rome broke out in 
A. D. 65. It began in Csesarea. We may be sure 
that they left in time and that they were useful else- 
where. 

The space given Philip in Acts by Luke is not 
great, but it is enough to make a clear picture of one 
of the finest figures in Christianity. He was worthy 
of the friendship of Stephen and of Paul and of Luke, 
as well as of Peter and John. He was not responsible 
for the imposture of Simon Magus. Many another 
preacher has been taken in by designing men and 
women who have sought to insinuate themselves into 
place and power by church connection and even by the 
use of the pulpit. One is not omniscient and cannot 
always read the human heart, but time sets things 
straight and the hypocrite is revealed. Philip was rich 
in his gifted daughters who did not stand alone among 
women in the first century who bore noble witness to 
the power of Christ to save women and to enrich all 
that is high and holy in womanhood. 

CHAPTER XIII 

MATTHEW THE BUSINESS MAN IN THE 
MINISTRY 

It is now a live question in many of the churches 
how to obtain suitable preachers. In some sections the 
supply of ministers seems to be keeping up with the 
increasing demand while in others there is a distressing 
shortage of young preachers in the schools. The rea- 
sons for the decrease on the whole are varied. The 
Y. M. C. A. now makes a strong pull for many of the 
finest young men. The foreign field has an increasing 
appeal for the noblest spirits in the colleges. Some 
young men find difficulty in reconciling the old faith 
with the new learning and drift into other callings. 
Some of the men with the new knowledge lack the con- 
viction and the loyalty to Jesus as Lord and Savior 
and so find themselves without a message and soon 
without an audience. There are always a certain num- 
ber of failures in the ministry as in everything else. 
Quite a number break down under the stress and strain 
of the modern minister's life. Meanwhile the churches 
are growing and clamor for more ministers of the 
highest type of character and efficiency. 

It is. always profitable to go back to the beginning 
of things. In our organized Christianity we have 
naturally come to look to the schools for the training 
of the ministry. But it is actually true in some in- 

192 

MATTHEW THE BUSINESS MAN 193 

stances that the educated preacher comes out unfitted 
for the active ministry. At any rate it is well to under- 
stand that the churches are not wholly dependent on 
the schools for ministers, necessary as the schools are. 
God raises up men to meet special emergencies. Jesus 
taught the disciples to pray for more laborers to enter 
the harvest. Certainly there has not been enough 
prayer in the churches for God-sent men. God is the 
real source of supply for preaching of the gospel of 
grace. All else is secondary. 

It is always possible for business men to enter the 
ministry. England has a large and useful number of 
lay-preachers who carry on their business during the 
week and preach on Sundays. Some of the5e give 
their whole time to preaching and at their own charges 
if necessary. D. L. Moody always considered himself 
a layman, because he was not ordained, though one 
of the greatest evangelists of the ages. He was a 
successful business man. He gave up the shoe-busi- 
ness to go into the soul-saving business. He carried 
his business attitude and habits into the service of win- 
ning souls to Christ. Successful business men need 
not be overlooked as a source of ministerial supply. 

Jesus did not overlook them. He called a whole 
firm of fishermen to leave their business and follow 
him. James and John were partners with Simon and 
Andrew (Luke 5:7-10). At the call of Christ these 
men all left their business and devoted the rest of their 
lives to work for Christ (Mark 1 117-20; Luke 5 :ii). 

But the most striking instance of the business man 
who entered the ministry is Matthew (Matthew 9:9), the 
publican who sat at the place of toll on the road that 

194 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

led from Damascus to Acre by the north end of the 
Sea of GaHlee at the border between the territory of 
Herod PhiHp and of Herod Antipas. Mark (2:14) 
terms this man "Levi the son of Alphseus" while Luke 
(5:27) calls him "a publican by name Levi." Evi- 
dently the man had two Jewish names, Levi and Mat- 
thew like Simon Cephas (Peter). Probably Levi was 
his original name and Matthew (Aramaic "Gift of 
Jehovah" like the Greek "Theodore") while Matthew 
may have been a later name (nickname as a term 
of endearment or appreciation) after he entered the 
ministry. At any rate in the lists of the Twelve Apos- 
tles he is always called Matthew and "Matthew the 
publican" in Matthew 10 :3. He stands seventh in Mark 
and Luke and eighth in Matthew and Acts. 

His business was perfectly legitimate in itself, in 
fact necessary. Customs officers and tax collectors are 
proverbially unpopular and arouse a certain amount 
of prejudice because of the business. The Jews re- 
sented the payment of tribute to Rome and disliked any 
Jew who undertook to collect the duty for Rome. 
Matthew was technically an officer under Herod An- 
tipas, but he incurred the dislike for his class. "Publi- 
cans and sinners" had come to be grouped together as 
of a piece. In many cases the publicans were guilty 
of graft and oppression as John the Baptist charged 
(Luke 3 :1:3). Matthew was not a chief publican like 
Zacchaeus (Luke 19:2) who farmed out a district 
with other publicans employed under him. Matthew 
simply had his customs office near Capernaum and 
examined the goods of those who parsed along the 
highway and collected the dues. 

MATTHEW THE BUSINESS MAN 195 

To do this work he had to know both Greek and 
Aramaic and he needed a certain amount of business 
ability, a quick and ready turn for financial exchange 
and accurate accounts. Matthew would receive the 
scorn of Pharisees because of his constant associa- 
tion with the Gentiles and the common run of the Jews. 
Besides, he would be compelled to violate the rules of 
the Pharisees concerning Sabbath observance. Jesus 
himself spoke of the publicans and harlots as social 
outcasts (Matthew 21:31). Matthew would not seem 
to be very promising material for a preacher, least of 
all for one of the Twelve Apostles. It would be like 
looking for a saloon keeper to become a minister. 

And yet one day in the midst of a great crowd com- 
ing and going, while Jesus was teaching them (Mark 
2:13-14) and while Matthew was very busy collecting 
the toll from the passing throng, the Master suddenly 
said to the publican: "Follow me" (Mark 2:14). 
The tense used (present imperative and so linear ac- 
tion) means to keep on following forever. Matthew 
understood at once that it was a call to quit the cus- 
toms office to go on the road with Jesus. Why did 
the demand of Jesus make an appeal to Matthew? It 
is quite probable that Matthew had already heard of 
the fame of Jesus who now made Capernaum his head- 
quarters (Mark 1:21; 2:1). The Sabbath in Caper- 
naum when the mother-in-law of Peter was healed 
closed with a great crowd. "All the city was gathered 
together at the door" (Mark 1 133). It is possible that 
Matthew was in that throng. The quick decision of 
Matthew argues for the conclusion that he had previ- 
ously faced the problem of Jesus. Now he took the 

196 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

great stand in the open and made that tremendous de- 
cision. As a rule in conversion the final step is taken 
after a great deal of consideration in one way or an- 
other. Sermons, conversations, reading the Bible, sor- 
row, joy, sickness, death may all have contributed to 
the moment of decision. But even so the step is usu- 
ally taken under the pressure of urgent invitation. 
When Jesus said to Philip: ''Follow me" (John 
1:43), PhiHp instantly obeyed because he ''was from 
Bethsaida, of the city of Andrew and Peter" (1:44). 
We follow the example of others whom we know and 
love. 

It was not easy for Matthew to yield to the com- 
mand of Jesus in spite of the charm of the Master 
for men. Matthew had no other means of livelihood 
so far as we know. Jesus was an itinerant rabbi with 
no fixed income. For the moment he was the popular 
idol, but one could not know how long it would con- 
tinue to be so. Matthew himself came from a class 
that was taboo with the religious leaders of the time. 
His coming would apparently embarrass Jesus and 
not help him. But he took his stand for Jesus openly 
and boldly. He rose up and followed Jesus then and 
there (aorist tense in Mark 2:14 and Matthew 9:9) and 
he kept on following him (imperfect tense in Luke 
5:28). Matthew was not a quitter. He had counted 
the cost. He "left all," Luke adds. Jesus does not 
demand that every business man give up his business 
and enter the ministry. But he does ask that of some. 
A successful business man cannot assume that he is 
not to receive a call to become a preacher. His very 
success in business may be one of his qualifications 

MATTHEW THE BUSINESS MAN 197 

for the ministry. It used to be said that preachers were 
not good business men, but, if the average business 
man had to support his family on the income of the 
average preacher, he would be slow to make that state- 
ment. And certainly modern business men feel as 
never before the need of preachers to help them apply 
the teaching of Jesus to the economic problems of the 
world. The Wall Street Journal openly affirms that 
the greatest need of the business world today is more 
religion and righteousness. Business men in the min- 
istry would help greatly in making a bond of contact 
between Christianity and business. 

Matthew not only took a public stand for Jesus 
before the business men of his day. He made a strong 
appeal to his business associates to become disciples of 
Jesus. "And Levi made a great reception for him in 
his house: and there was a great multitude of publicans 
and of others who were reclining at meat with them" 
(Luke 5:29). Luke makes it plain that it was the 
house of Levi and not of Jesus as the language of 
Mark 2:15 and Matthew 9 :io allows. But Mark and 
Matthew note that the crowd of "others" were "sin- 
ners." Mark explains that many sinners "were fol- 
lowing" Jesus. Matthew asserts that "many publicans 
and sinners came and reclined with Jesus and his dis- 
ciples." But Luke makes it clear that Matthew in- 
vited the crowd of "publicans and sinners," social out- 
casts like himself, his own friends and associates. 
Some of these "sinners" may have come uninvited. 
It is possible that Matthew may have accumulated a 
little money. At any rate he was anxious to show 
his colors. The only people who would accept an in- 

198 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

vitation to a reception were his own acquaintances and 
associates. The courage of Matthew is beyond all 
praise. So often Christian business men are shy in 
their testimony for Christ when they make a loud noise 
in business circles. Matthew wanted his old friends 
to meet Jesus. He was sure that they also would like 
him. It is plain also that Jesus was already known 
as willing to mingle with these social outcasts for 
they eagerly gathered round Jesus and gladly accepted 
Levi's invitation. 

Matthew was willing to incur ridicule for Jesus. 
The scribes and the Pharisees noticed the big crowd 
at the house of Levi the publican. They were already 
showing an interest in the teachings of Jesus as a 
rival for popular favor (Mark 1:22). They were not 
themselves invited by Levi and they would have 
spurned his invitation if it had been extended. But 
they had no hesitation in standing outside the house 
and making remarks about the conduct of Jesus in 
eating with publicans and sinners. 'Why does your 
teacher eat with publicans and sinners?" (Matthew 9:11). 
They clearly mean to imply that their teachers would 
be ashamed to eat with such people. Take notice that 
"they were murmuring" (Luke 5:30). It was like 
the buzz of bees. This pointed criticism in public 
was embarrassing to Matthew who had given the feast. 
There was nothing that he could say, for the crowd 
of publicans and sinners were his invited guests. The 
disciples did not feel like speaking though the question 
was addressed to them. Jesus took up the criticism 
and made a pointed rejoinder that is given verbatim by 
all the Synoptic Gospels: "The well have no need of 

MATTHEW THE BUSINESS MAN 199 

a physician, but the unwell.'* It is not hard to imagine 
the electric effect of this piercing saying of Jesus. 
Jesus was already the great Physician of body and 
soul. Surely the publicans and sinners needed the 
physician of souls. The Pharisees and scribes posed 
as physicians of souls, but they dodged the very peo- 
ple most in need of their services. Jesus had a further 
word for them: *'But go and learn what this means: 
I desire mercy and not sacrifice" (Matthew 9:13). This 
was a thrust at the whole fabric of Pharisaism. The 
sarcasm of Christ appears in his closing word: "For 
I have not come to call righteous folks, but sinners to 
repentance" (Luke 5:32). He took them at their 
own estimate as ''righteous" and brushed them aside. 
They were intermeddlers at Levi's reception and in 
the work of Christ. Certainly Matthew would ap- 
preciate the powerful word of defense from his new 
Friend and Lord. Matthew was getting his first ex- 
perience of that public criticism that every preacher 
must endure who does anything worth while. The 
preacher has to learn how to take criticism, to profit 
by it, to throw off much of it, to go on with his work 
in spite of Madame Grundy. "They say?" "Let them 
say." 

We have no reason to think that Matthew was a man 
of unusual gifts. Certainly he had not spectacular 
gifts that made him an outstanding figure in the new 
circle of Christ's disciples. He was not called on this 
occasion to be one of the Twelve Apostles, but to join 
the group of four fishermen who were already follow- 
ing Jesus (Andrew and Simon, James and John). 
Two others (Philip and Nathanael-Bartholomew) had 

200 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

already cast in their lot with Christ and the four. Five 
of these seven had been business men and that may 
have been true also of Philip and Nathanael. But 
the absence of any particular mention of Matthew 
apart from the rest in the later story in the Gospels 
indicates that he was on a level with the group as a 
whole and not a genius and not a distinctive leader. 
He was not clamorous for the first place in the Twelve 
as were James and John, Peter, and Judas Iscariot. 
But Matthew can at any rate be credited with the 
quality of steadiness and steadfastness. He apparently 
had not been a follower of the Baptist as the six first 
had been. He was then a newcomer in the circle and 
would not be likely to claim any particular honors or 
expect any special favors. The great feast that he gave 
in honor of Jesus was a hearty expression of his grati- 
tude to the great Teacher and perhaps also in some sense 
a jubilation or celebration of the new departure in his 
own career. Matthew had certainly made a daring 
leap from the post of publican to that of preacher of 
righteousness. But Jesus knew that Matthew was a 
publican when he called him. He knew the cleavage 
between the Pharisees, the ceremonial separatists of the 
day, and the publicans and sinners who outraged all 
the social and religious conventions of the Pharisees. 
Jesus deliberately took his stand by the side of "sin- 
ners" who repented as against the pride of the self- 
righteous whose hearts were full of hate for the down- 
trodden among men. 

It is not certain that Matthew comprehended fully 
the significance of the spiritual, moral, and social 
revolution of which he was a part. He was called upon 

MATTHEW THE BUSINESS MAN £01 

to play a not ignoble part in the great drama of all 
time. For one thing he had to prove the wisdom of 
Christ in calling a publican instead of a Pharisee. He 
had to overcome by a clean and straight life in the 
sharpest and bluntest criticism. His own life in all 
probability had not been above reproach. He had 
most likely lived up to the reputation of his class as 
an oppressor of the poor and as a grafter. This he 
had to overcome by a clean and straight life in the 
open. Jesus tested Matthew by some months of con- 
stant fellowship and service with the other six. Mat- 
thew came to understand better what lay ahead of him. 
So it came to pass that after a night of prayer in the 
mountain Jesus came down to a lower plateau and 
chose the twelve men whom he named apostles who 
were to be his cabinet of co-workers for the king- 
dom of God. He chose "Matthew the publican" in 
that fateful number of men on whom so much de- 
pended. As a general rule it is wise for any man to 
have some testing or trial before he fully launches into 
the ministry of Christ. It is not always an easy thing 
to manage for the churches are usually shy of a novice 
in the ministry. A man cannot learn to preach without 
preaching. He must practice on somebody. In the 
case of young men who have to spend years of prepara- 
tion for the work the decision usually has to be made 
on the basis of promise and faith. It is a chance in 
futures from the human standpoint. My own experi- 
ence as a theological teacher for some thirty-five years 
may be worth something. Probably over five thousand 
young ministers have been in my various classes dur- 
ing these years. I am often asked what percentage of 

202 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

these students fail to enter the ministry. I have kept 
no accurate data, but my general impression is that 
the actual loss is less than two per cent of the whole. 
To be sure, those that come to the theological seminary 
have usually had high school and college training. 
Most of them have already had student pastorates or 
regular pastoral work. The love of preaching has 
already gripped them. The work in the Southern Bap- 
tist Theological Seminary has deepened their love for 
souls and for soul-winning. I am glad to be able to 
bear this witness to the loyalty of the great host of 
the noblest of men whom my life has touched by the 
grace and goodness of God. These men have become 
good ministers of Christ, in varying measure, to be 
sure, but still with honorable fidelity and with a meas- 
ure of the favor of God upon their work. They have 
girdled the earth with lives of consecrated toil for 
Christ. I thank God today for the holy and happy 
memories connected with them. So Matthew, the 
former publican, took his place with the elect group 
of choice spirits chosen by Jesus for fellowship in 
service, his earthly bodyguard in the midst of mis- 
understanding and relentless and increasing hostility. 
One other thing can be affirmed with confidence 
concerning Matthew. Papias in the well-known pas- 
sage in Eusebius is quoted as saying that Matthew 
wrote Logia of Jesus in Hebrew (Aramaic) which 
each one interpreted as he was able. Tradition credits 
him with the authorship of our First Gospel, the can- 
onical Gospel according to Matthew. The present 
Gospel according to Matthew bears little mark of being 
a translation from Aramaic. It seems to be a free 

MATTHEW THE BUSINESS MAN 203 

composition in Greek, free at least in the same sense 
that the Gospel according to Luke is free, with the evi- 
dent use of materials such as Luke mentions (Luke 
I :i-4). It is not my purpose here to enter into a dis- 
cussion of the Synoptic Problem, the broad outlines of 
which are now pretty generally accepted. My own 
views are fully stated in my books (''Commentary on 
Matthew in the Bible for Home and School," ''Studies 
in Mark's Gospel," "Luke the Historian in the Light 
of Research"). Both Matthew and Luke make use of 
Mark's Gospel and a non-Markan source commonly 
called Logia or Q (German Quelle, Source). This 
non-Markan source may very well have been the 
Logia of Matthew mentioned by Papias. Since Mat- 
thew was bilingual as a publican at his post near Caper- 
naum on the great West Road, it is quite possible that 
he may have written the Logia in Aramaic and the 
Gospel in Greek. But, leaving that point to one side, 
there is every reason to think of him as one of the 
very earliest narrators of the things of Jesus Christ. 
Some scholars even hold that Matthew began to take 
notes of the sayings of Jesus Christ during the Mas- 
ter's ministry. If so, the Logia of Jesus by Matthew 
took shape some twenty years before the Gospel of 
Mark which reflects so faithfully the vivid pictures 
seen by Peter. The point is made that Matthew's 
habits as a customs officer led him to jot down, per- 
haps at first in shorthand, notes of the wonderful 
words that fell from the lips of the great Teacher. If 
there is anything at all in this hypothesis, we find in 
Matthew an illustration of one's business habits bear- 
ing fruit in the ministry. The Gospel according to 

204 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

Matthew has been termed the most useful book in 
the world, for it is the book about Jesus that has been 
most read. It has given most people their conception 
of Christ. Even if Matthew did not write the Greek 
Gospel bearing his name, his Aramaic Logia made a 
great contribution to the picture of Jesus. It is likely 
that the Logia was much larger in content than the 
non-Markan element in both Matthew and Luke as 
we can judge by the use made of Mark's Gospel. 
And in the absence of definite proof against the Mat- 
thsean authorship of the First Gospel, his connection 
with it must be considered possible, some would say 
probable, and that is my opinion. 

There are many legends concerning the preaching 
of Matthew, some of them certainly confused with 
Matthias. These may all be passed by in our estimate 
of the work of Matthew for Christ. If he had done 
nothing else but write the Logia of which Papias 
spoke and which modern criticism finds in large meas- 
ure preserved in our canonical Matthew and Luke, he 
would be entitled to the rank of one of the benefactors 
of humanity. The group of twelve men whom Jesus 
gathered round him challenge our interest from every 
standpoint. Each had his own gifts. The veil of si- 
lence rests upon the work of most of them. We are 
able to form a fairly clear picture of Peter, John, 
Judas, and Matthew, with a fainter outline of Philip, 
Andrew, and James. Perhaps few in the circle would 
have thought of the solid and more or less stolid Mat- 
thew as one who would win immortal fame. But work 
counts in the end of the day fully as much as genius. 
The greatest men have both genius and the capacity 

MATTHEW THE BUSINESS MAN 205 

for work. In fact, genius is largely a capacity for 
work. But the less brilliant minister can do an hon- 
est day's work with the gifts that he has in the place 
where God has placed him. These are the men who 
must meet the demands of the new world. Every man 
must plow his own furrow to the end and must make 
it as straight as he can and make it fit in with the work 
of others. Christ calls upon business men today either 
to enter the ministry or to back up the ministry with 
personal service and with money to make Christianity 
effective in the life of the world. 

CHAPTER XIV 
JUDAS THE TRAITOR TO HIS LORD 

The case of Judas is the saddest of all those who 
came in contact with Jesus during his earthly minis- 
try. Others sinned grievously, but Judas sinned 
against more light than they all. Simon Peter denied 
his Lord under sudden impulse when caught in the 
toils of circumstance, but Judas sinned with delibera- 
tion and calculated treachery. Pilate sinned against 
Roman law according to his own confession, but he 
palliated his conscience like some other politicians by 
laying the blame upon the Sanhedrin. The sin of 
Caiaphas was greater than that of Pilate as Jesus said 
(John 1:8 :i I ). The Sanhedrin gleefully accepted their 
share of the guilt for the death of Jesus (John 19:7) 
while the populace enthusiastically exclaimed: "His 
blood be on us and on our children" (Matthew 27:25). 
There was guilt enough for all. Sadducees, Phar- 
isees, and Herodians buried the hatchet against each 
other for the moment in order to vent their spleen 
against Jesus, the common object of their hatred. 

But Judas stands out above all the rest as the su- 
preme example of treachery for all time. His very 
name, though one of the commonest and most honor- 
able in ancient Jewish history (merely the Greek form 
of Judah) became the synonym for all that is base 
and mean. Benedict Arnold can only be called a sec- 

206 

JUDAS THE TRAITOR TO HIS LORD 207 

ond Judas. **The enormity of the sin of Judas con- 
sisted in its being against all bonds of discipleship and 
friendship; against light, against mercies, affection, 
trust, warning; against his own promises and preach- 
ing" (Plummer in Hastings's "D. B."). Keim argues 
that it is impossible to think that the treason of Judas 
would have been invented if he had not been guilty. 
With all the minute research into the details of the life 
of Jesus in the Gospels no serious effort has been made 
to show that Judas did not betray his Lord. And Judas 
does not stand alone in the history of Christianity 
though he does head the list of traitors. A few men 
who once preached the glory of Jesus have lived to 
curse his name to the end. 

There have been those who sought to relieve Judas 
of real blame for his conduct by various specious 
arguments. The commonest plea is that he was the 
chosen vessel to betray Jesus so that he could die for 
sinners, that it was God's plan that Christ should die 
on the Cross and that this could only happen by be- 
trayal to the Sanhedrin because of Christ's power with 
the people. But this explanation handles in too light 
and easy a manner the whole problem of the origin 
of evil and of human responsibility. There is no real 
ground for saying that Judas was put among the 
Twelve Apostles in order that he might betray Jesus. 
Certainly Jesus did not say that he selected Judas be- 
cause he knew that he would betray him. It is not 
clear from John 6:64 that Jesus meant to say that 
he knew who would betray him from the beginning of 
his own ministry. He may mean only that in the 
early stages of the work of Judas he saw signs that 

208 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

Judas was given over to the work of the devil and 
would betray him. That is clear to Jesus one year 
before the end (John 6:70), though the exposure 
seems not to have shocked the Twelve at that time. 
Already the heart of Judas was with those who walked 
no more with Jesus (John 6:66). 

Some would even make Judas a sort of hero in 
that he tried out of excess of patriotism and loyalty 
to force the hand of Jesus and compel him to be king 
in open rebellion to Caesar. The idea is that Judas 
disliked the refusal of Jesus to respond to the pupular 
clamor in Galilee a year before his death (John 6:15). 
The triumphant entry gave Jesus a great following, 
but even so he showed no purpose to follow it up in a 
political way. If Jesus were in the hands of the 
Sanhedrin, the people would rally to his standard and 
throw off the Roman yoke. So the argument runs, 
but it is very feeble and inconclusive and overlooks 
too many items that demand explanation, especially 
the fact that Jesus calls him a devil (John 6:70). 

Others argue that Judas was wholly evil without 
any element of good, that he even sought out a place 
among the Twelve in order that he might have an 
opportunity to betray Jesus. Beyond doubt Judas 
early fell into the power of the devil. Both Luke 
(22 :3) and John (13 127) say that Satan entered into 
Judas just before the betrayal and, as we have seen, 
Jesus called Judas a devil a year before that. Evi- 
dently, therefore, the connection of Judas with the 
devil was no new and sudden thing. In fact John 
(13:2) observes that Satan had "already" put the 
notion of betrayal into his heart. It is clear, therefore, 

JUDAS THE TRAITOR TO HIS LORD 209 

that Judas had for some time brooded over his dark 
project in secret communing with the devil. Prob- 
ably at first the suggestion was more or less uncon- 
scious, but finally he was fully aware of his own pur- 
pose and welcomed the periodic visits and impulses of 
Satan in his heart. Undoubtedly Judas played with 
temptation until finally he became the tool of the devil 
who wrought his own will through him. But in the 
last analysis that is the story of many a sordid life. 
The worst dope fiend became a degenerate by degrees. 
There was a time when resistance was possible. 

Judas had elements of good in him that appealed 
to Jesus. "Ye did not choose me, but I chose you and 
appointed you that ye should go and bear fruit, and 
that your fruit should abide" (John 15:16). And 
Jesus thanked the Father for giving him these twelve 
men (John 17:6): *'And I guarded them and not one 
of them perished, but the son of perdition" (John 
17:12). But *'the son of perdition" brought that fate 
upon himself, Jesus clearly means. The Master early 
perceived the elements of peril in Judas and began to 
warn him in subtle ways and then more openly. But 
these warnings against hypocrisy probably at first 
passed by undiscerned. When they became more 
personal, they were probably bitterly resented as 
"flings" and proof of Christ's dislike for Judas. It 
is hardly likely that Judas would take to himself 
the general denunciation of covetousness and hypoc- 
risy or even the implication that the light in any of 
them might be darkness (Luke 11 :35). When Jesus 
spoke of one of them being a devil (John 7:70), 
Judas may have passed the epithet on to others, as 

210 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

people will a hit in sermons. And when at the end 
the language of Jesus was unmistakable, Judas was 
simply confirmed in his purpose to go on with his 
hellish bargain. "Ye are clean, but not all" (John 
12:10). "He that eateth my bread lifted up his heel 
against me" (John 13:18). When Jesus pointedly 
said at the last supper: "One of you shall betray me, 
even he that eateth with me" (Mark 14:18), the other 
disciples were sorrowful and amazed and looked on 
one another to see if they could see signs of such 
treachery in each other (John 13:22). When each 
asked "Is it I," Judas did the same thing brazenly 
(Matthew 26:25). He would bluff it out as long as he 
could, though he now knew that Jesus understood him 
thoroughly. The disciples actually questioned each 
other on the subject (Luke 22 :23), but failed to grasp 
the significance of the sign when Jesus gave the sop 
to Judas as he indicated in response to John's ques- 
tion to Jesus and the suggestion of Peter (John 13 :2y 
26). It is even possible that Judas got the post of 
honor at this last feast, a circumstance that would 
blacken his character still more. But Judas under- 
stood perfectly the language of Jesus: "What thou 
doest, do quickly." He was now wholly in the grasp 
of the devil and the warnings of Jesus apparently only 
exasperated him to go on to the end. 

It is not possible to explain the career of Judas by 
one motive. It is not possible to explain the conduct 
of any ordinary man in that way. Jesus was in complete 
fellowship w^th the Father. He was both God and 
man, but the Father's will ruled his life. Of no one 
else can that be said in that sense. Mixed motives 

JUDAS THE TRAITOR TO HIS LORD 211 

control most men and women in what they do. That 
was certainly true of Judas. We may put it down as 
certain that he did not consciously set out to be a 
traitor. He was undoubtedly drawn to Jesus at first 
by the charm of his words and by the nobility of his 
character. Like the other apostles he brought the 
Pharisaic conception of a political Messiah with him 
and he held on to that in spite of the teaching of Jesus 
to the contrary. It was not till the great Pentecost 
that the rest saw the truth about that fundamental 
point. Judas was dead by that time. It is possible to 
trace some of the motives that led Judas astray. 

Ambition was undoubtedly one of them. It is quite 
likely that he thought of himself as the leader of the 
twelve. In Mark 14:10 the best manuscripts call 
Judas "the one of the twelve." We know that they 
had several disputes on that very point as to which was 
first. Simon Peter felt himself the natural leader of 
the group because of his ready speech and impulsive 
character. At Pentecost after the Ascension of Jesus 
he did take the lead. Jesus was the real leader while 
on earth. James and John openly demanded the two 
best places for themselves, a selfish request that stirred 
the indignation of the rest. During the last year of 
his ministry Jesus took pains to explain to the disciples 
the spiritual nature of his kingdom and by degrees 
the fact of his death in Jerusalem. Peter openly re- 
buked Jesus for speaking in such a despondent way of 
his death and brought upon himself the epithet 
**Satan." All this slowly sank into the heart of Judas 
and disappointed ambition rankled in his breast. He 
grasped firmly the conviction that he cared far more 

212 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

for a certain place in a new political revolution than 
for shadowy hopes about a spiritual and heavenly 
kingdom. After the glory of the triumphal entry on 
Sunday morning it must not be overlooked that on 
Tuesday morning in the temple Jesus made open breach 
with the Sanhedrin and made it impossible for the re- 
ligious leaders to accept him as Messiah. On the 
Mount of Olives Jesus had delivered an extended dis- 
course full of woe and disaster for the city and the 
world. Pessimism evidently gripped Judas power- 
fully at the turn of events. He may have desired to 
save what he could out of the wreck. 

Jealousy also played its part beyond a doubt. 
Judas was the only apostle from Judaea. The rest were 
from Galilee. This fact would tend to make him sus- 
picious about little things. At the last supper there 
was an unseemly scramble for the place of honor next 
to Jesus. It is not certain who got it, whether Judas, 
Peter, or John. But we do know that the wrangling 
continued during the feast, after all had reclined, to 
such an extent that Jesus arose and took a basin of 
water and a towel and began to wash the disciples* 
feet to give them an object lesson in humility. 
Wounded pride heals slowly. Judas may have felt that 
Jesus suspected him and would honor the others, men 
of inferior powers, in preference to himself. So he 
would come to justify himself in his own feelings 
toward Jesus. 

Undoubtedly Judas felt resentment at the public 
rebuke given him by Jesus at the feast at the house of 
Simon the leper. Judas made the protest against the 
apparent waste of money by Mary for the ointment 

JUDAS THE TRAITOR TO HIS LORD 213 

(John 12:5). To be sure, his mention of the poor 
was a flimsy protest, but all the other disciples instantly 
joined in and supported Judas in his criticism of 
Mary (Mark 14:4; Matthew 26:8). The rebuke of Jesus 
was direct and manifestly cut Judas to the quick. The 
breach between Judas and Jesus was now wide open. 
Jesus appreciated sentiment and love and even spoke 
of his death in this connection (John 12:7). Judas 
was practical and selfish and thought chiefly of what 
he could get out of his allegiance to Christ. He had 
followed Christ in the ups and downs of his ministry. 
He had seen him the hero of all Galilee and had done 
his share to arouse Galilee when the twelve toured the 
land by twos. He had preached Christ's gospel of 
the kingdom and had cast out demons. He had gone 
with Jesus when a practical refugee from Galilee and 
had seen the gathering storm in Jerusalem. He had 
done his part to turn Jesus away from the folly of a 
complete breach with the Jewish leaders in Jerusa- 
lem. This public rebuke before all the twelve and the 
other guests he considered an unforgivable insult. It 
was the last straw on the camel's back. He left the 
feast at Bethany in disgust and went straight to the 
Sanhedrin and offered to betray Jesus to them (Mark 
14:10). He acted as if in hot resentment, but it was 
not a new thought. Satan entered into him afresh at 
this juncture (Luke 22:3), but he was now merely 
ripe fruit for the devil's hand. 

Covetousness played its part also in the ruin of the 
soul of Judas. John notes that Judas was a thief 
and had been in the habit of pilfering from the company 
bag that he carried for all (John 12:6). But John's 

214 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

comment is made in the light of the after development. 
At this stage no one of them suspected him of finan- 
cial crookedness. He was the treasurer of the com- 
pany and had won this place of responsible leadership 
because of business ability and a practical turn for 
affairs. He no doubt felt that, as treasurer of the 
group, he had a right to file a protest against the 
reckless and foolish extravagance of Mary in the waste 
of so much money on mere sentiment. They had not 
had too much money and often were in want with 
nowhere to lay their heads. But for the handful of 
women who ministered to them of their substance 
(Luke 8:1-3) their condition would have been much 
worse. The covetousness of Judas appeared to him 
as economy and good business sense. Many another 
has excused his own stinginess by polite terms of like 
nature. The love of money cheapens a man's whole 
nature and does much to destroy the finer qualities. 
At any rate Judas seems blunt and brutal as a spy 
before the Sanhedrin: ''What are ye willing to give 
me, and I will deliver him unto you?" (Matthew 26:15). 
It is hard to believe that even a miser would have come 
over to the enemy for so small a price as thirty pieces 
of silver which the chief priests weighed out unto him 
in advance (Matthew 26:15). It was the price of a 
slave (Exodus 21 :32) and that fact would give added 
pleasure to Judas in his mood of angry resentment and 
disappointed ambition. He acted probably on impulse 
in going all of a sudden to the Sanhedrin to make the 
proposal to show them how to seize Jesus during the 
feast in spite of the multitude of adherents that he 
had (Luke 22 :6). But he stuck to his nefarious bar- 

JUDAS THE TRAITOR TO HIS LORD ^15 

gain with deliberation and pertinacity. He had plenty 
of opportunity to change his mind and to return the 
money. On the other hand "he sought opportimity'* 
to deliver Jesus to the Sanhedrin. 

So the shameful compact was carried through to the 
letter. Judas came back and took his accustomed 
place with the eleven who suspected nothing to the end. 
They even misunderstood Christ's last word to Judas 
before he left on his hellish mission as a message 
about his duties as treasurer (John 13 :2g) even after 
Jesus had exposed the betrayer to them all. They did 
not have eyes to see such treachery. Judas was a 
coward like most criminals. He knew the real power 
of Jesus and came to the Garden of Gethsemane, 
Christ's favorite place of prayer, and took advantage 
of his knowledge of Christ's habits of piety (John 
18:2). But even so he came with a band of soldiers 
and with lanterns and torches and weapons (John 
18 13). Judas felt the power of Jesus in the bold chal- 
lenge and the manifestation of the supernatural power 
(John 18:4-9). ^^t there was no turning back now. 
Judas had crossed the Rubicon. There was no need 
for him to go on with his sign to the soldiers to iden- 
tify Jesus. He was already marked out by his own 
conduct. But Judas kissed Jesus excessively (Mark 
14:45), adding insult to injury. The last word of 
Jesus to Judas made it plain that he was understood 
^(Matthew 26:50). 

The remorse of Judas was in keeping with all the 
rest. It was not real repentance, but only sorrow at 
the outcome. After the actual condemnation of Jesus 
Judas began to see himself in his true light. The blur 

216 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

of anger and resentment subsided enough for him to 
see his own portrait. That has often happened with a 
murderer or a rapist after the deed is done. Gloating 
satisfaction gives place to a reviving conscience that 
whips like a scorpion sting. So in a rage he rushed 
to the chief priests and confessed his crime: "I have 
sinned in that I have betrayed innocent blood" (Matt. 
27:4). But they were not interested in that phase of 
the subject: ''What is that to us? See thou to it" 
(Matthew 27:5). He flung the pieces of money into the 
sanctuary, where he was not himself allowed to go and 
departed. 

There are two accounts of the death of Judas, that 
in Matthew 27:4-10 and that in Acts i :1:8-1:9. They 
differ in several details and are probably independent 
traditions. It is possible to harmonize them if one 
wishes to do so. He may have hanged himself and 
have fallen down, the rope breaking, and burst asunder. 
The field could have been called the field of blood be- 
cause his own blood was shed on it and also because 
the Sanhedrin bought it with blood money, the price 
of the death of Jesus, and so have used it as a pot- 
ter's field for burying strangers. At any rate the chief 
priests apparently took the money that they had 
spurned but used it for this special purpose. There 
are legends about his death that may be passed by. 

The greatest Tragedy of the ages carried with it 
the treachery of Judas and the faltering of Simon 
Peter, two of the leading apostles. In fact, they all 
deserted for a time and fled like sheep without a shep- 
herd as Jesus had said they would. But Peter sin- 
cerely repented and came back and made good. But 

JUDAS THE TRAITOR TO HIS LORD 217 

Judas went over the cliff. He went down with the 
Niagara flood. Peter says that *'he went to his own 
place" (Acts 1:25). He went to his doom that he 
had earned for himself. We are all caught in the 
womb of circumstance and at times we seem the vic- 
tims of destiny that we cannot control. But our 
spiritual destiny we make for ourselves. Terrible as 
was the fate of Judas, one must conclude that he had 
in him the making of a great preacher of Christ's gos- 
pel. Jesus saw the good that was possible m Judas 
as he did in Simon. But Simon, in spite of his ups 
and downs, became at last a rock, while Judas became 
a devil. Both were under the tutelage of Jesus. Both 
had the same privileges. Both were men of weakness 
and frailty. One fought the devil after momentary 
defeat. The other courted the devil and listened to 
his blandishments. 

Judas carries a perpetual warning to every preacher 
of Christ. Paul saw the peril clearly: "I therefore so 
run as not uncertainly, I so fight as not beating the 
air, but I beat my body and keep it in subjection, lest, 
after having preached to others, I myself should be- 
come rejected" (1 Corinthians 9:26-7). Paul warned us not 
to give place to the devil (Ephesians 4:27). Others can 
tread under foot the Son of God (Hebrews 10:29) and 
crucify him afresh and put him to an open shame 
(Hebrews 6:6). It is a high and holy privilege to be 
allowed to come into the inner circle of Christ's fol- 
lowers. It is a dread catastrophe to see such a one 
sink back into the pit from which he was digged. It 
were indeed good for that man if he had not been 
born (Matthew 26:24). 

■y 

CHAPTER XV 
DIOTREPHES THE CHURCH REGULATOR 

The Elder who writes the Third Epistle of John 
was probably the Apostle John, the Beloved Disciple 
of the Fourth Gospel, and the author of First and 
Second John. He does not call himself John or an 
apostle, but that proves nothing. Peter terms himself 
"a fellow-elder'* in writing to "the elders" (i Peter 
5:1). The style of the three Johannine Epistles is 
the same as that of the Fourth Gospel. Not all 
scholars agree, to be sure, but we may think of the 
aged Apostle John writing these letters in his zeal to 
help on the mission work in Asia Minor. In the later 
years of the first century the story is that John lived 
at Ephesus where Paul had labored for three years 
and where later Timothy was Paul's loyal disciple in 
charge of the evangelistic work. Already Gnosticism 
had come into this region to play havoc with the 
churches as we see in Colossians and in the Pastoral 
Epistles. This subtle heresy concerned itself pri- 
marily with a philosophical theory that all matter is 
essentially evil. This theory, like that of Mrs. Eddy 
that matter is non-existent, involves serious conse- 
quences in morale and in doctrines. In particular, it 
involved a degrading view of the person of Christ, like 
"Christian Science" again. Two forms of Gnosticism 
appeared. One, the Docetic, denied that Jesus had a 

218 

DIOTREPHES THE CHURCH REGULATOR 219 

real human body at all. "For many deceivers are come 
forth into the world, they that confess not that Jesus 
Christ Cometh in the flesh" (2 John 7). These here- 
tics held that Jesus was an ceon or intermediate being 
between God and man and only seemed to have a human 
body. The other view, that of Cerinthus, was that 
Jesus the man and Christ the cFon that came on Jesus 
at his baptism were different, curiously like the "Jesus 
or Christ" controversy in the Hihhert Journal Sup- 
plement (1909). "Who is the liar but he that denieth 
that Jesus is the Christ?" (1 John 2 :22). The churches 
were rent by this heresy. Some went out (i John 
2:19), while others remained in the membership. 

There were loyal missionaries going among the 
churches. These had to be entertained and supported. 
John urges Gaius to "set forward on this journey 
worthily of God" (3 John 6) these brethren and 
strangers withal, "because for that for the sake of the 
Name they went forth, taking nothing of the Gen- 
tiles" (verse 7). One is reminded of the directions 
of Jesus to the Twelve Apostles when they were sent 
over Galilee by twos. So Paul and his co-laborers 
journeyed over much of the Roman Empire. So mis- 
sionaries today go through Central China. The treat- 
ment of these heralds of the Cross became a test of 
one's loyalty to Jesus as missions is today a touch- 
stone of vital Christianity. "We therefore ought to 
welcome such, that we may be fellow-workers for the 
truth" (verse 8). The least that a true Christian could 
do was to give hospitality for these pioneer preachers 
who pushed on to the harder fields. There were few 
hotels in our modern sense of comfort and the public 

220 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

inns were usually impossible places because of vermin 
(human and non-human). So hospitality was a Chris- 
tian virtue of the first quality as it still adorns many 
a home today. 

It is not certain whether Diotrephes was a Gnostic or 
not. It seems pretty clear that he sympathized with 
that doctrine. Some of the Gnostic propagandists 
were fierce in their denunciations of Christ and of 
Christianity. Cerinthus and John were held to be 
strongly antagonistic. It would come to pass that 
one could not show hospitality to a Gnostic without 
being suspected of sympathy with that heresy. "If 
any one cometh unto you, and bringeth not this teach- 
ing (the teaching of Christ), receive him not into your 
house and give him no greeting" (2 John 10). Such 
an extreme course could only be justified where the 
heresy was very radical. Today one might hesitate 
to give hospitality to a Mormon missionary or to a pro- 
fessional or blatant infidel. 

John says: "I wrote somewhat unto the church" (3 
John 9). Both Gains and Diotrephes were apparently 
members of the same church, though what church we 
do not know. That letter to the church is apparently 
lost, though some scholars see it in 2 John (the elect 
lady), an unlikely supposition. This lost letter dealt 
with the proper reception of the missionaries as they 
went from church to church. This letter probably 
covered much of the same ground as the Third Epis- 
tle to Gains, urging the right reception of Demetrius 
and of the other brethren who were doing good for 
God. It may be questioned whether this letter to the 
church contained formal denunciation of Diotrephes, 

DIOTREPHES THE CHURCH REGULATOR 221 

though that is possible. Certainly John was not afraid 
of Diotrephes, for he was not afraid of Cerinthus. 

But our Third John is a private letter to Gaius sent 
at the same time as the public epistle to the church. 
Probably the main point in this letter is to warn 
Gaius about Diotrephes. In this private letter prob- 
ably John employs language a bit sharper than in the 
other. John is evidently anxious that Diotrephes shall 
not be allowed to prejudice the church further against 
him and the missionary brethren. He wishes Gaius 
to forestall such action on the part of Diotrephes. But 
the letter is a frank testimonial to the power of Dio- 
trephes in the church of which Gaius is a member. 
It is to be a struggle between Gaius and Diotrephes 
for mastery in the church, between the evil and the 
good. "Beloved, imitate not that which is evil, but 
that which is good. He that doeth good is of God: he 
that doeth evil hath not seen God" (3 John 11). We 
need not draw the conclusion that Diotrephes is 
wholly evil, but certainly his influence is dangerous 
for the cause of Christianity. He is still a member 
of the church and exerts great power over the church 
as will be seen. 

The precise ecclesiastical position of Diotrephes is 
not clear. Some have seen in his exercise of power 
the monarchical bishop of later times. That is an 
unnecessary hypothesis in the absence of any evidence 
of bishop as distinct from elder (presbyter) in the 
New Testament as Lightfoot has shown. It is not 
absolutely certain that Diotrephes was an elder or 
bishop at all, though that is likely. Probably both 
Gaius and Diotrephes were elders in the same church 

222 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

as we see several elders at Ephesus and Philippi. It 
is possible that Diotrephes was a deacon. Many years 
ago I wrote an article for a denominational paper con- 
cerning Diotrephes. The editor told me afterwards 
that twenty-five deacons had ordered the paper stopped 
as a protest against the personal attack in the paper. 
What I did in the article was to show that Diotrephes 
was a typical church "boss" who ruled the church to 
suit his own whims. In Kentucky we have a phrase 
termed "the short-horn deacon" for this type of church 
regulator. I once heard of such a deacon who boasted 
that he had made every pastor leave that he had ever 
had. To be sure, a preacher can be a church "boss" 
as well as the deacon. But it is easier to drive the 
pastor away than the deacon. I know of one case 
where the pastor quietly informed such a deacon that 
he (the deacon) would have to go if anyone left. The 
deacon left and joined another church. 

The sin that John charges against Diotrephes is that 
he "loves to have the pre-eminence." The word here 
employed by John is a very rare one and means "fond 
of being first." A late scholion explains it as "seizing 
the first things in an underhand way." The word 
occurs among the ecclesiastical writers to picture the 
rivalries among the bishops of the time. It is a sad 
commentary on human nature that even preachers of 
humility often practice the pushing of self to the front 
in an unbecoming spirit and manner. One recalls that 
once Jesus found the disciples disputing among them- 
selves who was the greatest among them, a spirit 
that Jesus sternly rebuked by placing a little child, 
possibly Peter's own child, in the midst of them, and 

DIOTREPHES THE CHURCH REGULATOR 223 

by saying that the greatest was the one who served 
the most. And once James and John with their mother 
actually came to Jesus with the formal request that 
they be given the two chief places in the kingdom of 
Christ (the political Messianic kingdom of their ex- 
pectation). And at the last passover meal Jesus had 
to rebuke the apostles for their unseemly conduct in 
scrambling for the post of honor at the meal. It was 
with this peril in mind that Jesus urged the apostles to 
love one another and prayed for unity among them and 
among all his future followers. Ambition is not sin- 
ful in itself though our very word (of Latin origin) 
had a bad history, for it suggests politicians who would 
take both sides of an issue in order to get votes. This 
double-dealing is due to the desire for place and power. 
Jesus noted that the Pharisees loved the chief seats in 
the synagogue in order to be seen of men. Their piety 
was particularly punctilious if enough prominence 
could be obtained to justify the display and outlay of 
energy. A certain amount of ambition to excel is 
good for one. Ambition is a good servant, but a bad 
master. It is dangerous for ambition to have the whip 
handle in one's life. Diotrephes loved the first place 
among the brethren. He was determined to be first at 
any cost. If any honors were to be bestowed, he as- 
sumed that they belonged to him as a matter of course. 
He must be consulted on a matter of church policy 
else he was against it. The least detail of church life 
must receive his sanction else he would condemn it. 
If he was not chairman of all the committees, he must 
be regarded as an ex officio member. If Diotrephes had 
been the sole pastor of the church, something could 

224 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

be said for such pre-eminence. But evidently Gaius was 
also one of the elders. And Diotrephes may have been 
only a deacon. But the spirit of a man like Diotre- 
plies does not depend on office. Such a man rates him- 
self as the natural leader of the church by reason of his 
native gifts, family, money, reputation. The only way 
for the church to have peace is for all freely to acknowl- 
edge this brother's primacy. Plutarch notes that 
Alcibiades wanted the first place. He got it and he 
ruined Athens by the expedition to Syracuse. It is 
impossible to calculate the harm that has been wrought 
in the churches by church dictators like Diotrephes. 

Diotrephes drew the line on John. He ''receiveth 
me not." He refused to recognize the standing and 
authority of John the Elder and Apostle. The word 
here rendered ''receive" occurs in the papyri in the 
sense of "accepting" a lease and in Maccabees io:i 
for "accepting" a king. Evidently Diotrephes treated 
John as a heretic or as John is said to have treated 
Cerinthus when he rushed out of the bath when Cer- 
inthus came in lest the house fall in because of God's 
wrath. One recalls the temperament of this "son of 
thunder" who came to be known as "the apostle of 
love." It was John who in great zeal reported to 
Jesus one day: "Master, we saw one casting out de- 
mons in thy name; and we forbade him, because he 
followed not with us" (Luke 9:49). But Jesus re- 
buked John's narrowness of spirit about method of 
work. "Forbid him not: for he that is not against 
you is for you" (Luke 9:50). John and James were 
those who asked Jesus to call down fire from heaven 
to consume the Samaritans who "did not receive" 

DIOTREPHES THE CHURCH REGULATOR 225 

Jesus (Luke 9:52-55). But Jesus "turned and re- 
buked them." John was now the aged apostle who 
went from church to church with the message: ''Little 
children, love one another." But he still had the old 
fire and vigor with more justification against Dio- 
trephes than against the examples in the Gospel of 
Luke. Diotrephes was turning the tables on John 
(cf. 3 John 10) and was refusing to recognize or to 
entertain John as a genuine minister of Christ. Be- 
sides, he said slighting things about John, "prating 
against us with wicked words." The word translated 
"prating" occurs as an adjective in 1 Timothy 5:13 
"tattlers" {verhosco, Vulgate). These idle, tattling 
busy-bodies excited Paul's disgust. That is John's 
word for Diotrephes. He seemed to have John on the 
brain and gadded around with idle tales and "wicked 
words" derogatory to John's character and work, 
seeking to undermine his influence for good. This 
sort of propaganda against preachers is only too com- 
mon. It degenerates into idle gossip. One of the 
saddest spectacles in modern Christianity is to see 
the very forces that are designed to co-operate with the 
pastor in pushing on the work of the kingdom of God, 
engaged in pulling down all that the pastor and other 
church members try to do. The result is the paralysis 
of the work and the mockery of the outsiders who sneer 
at Christian love and unity. As a rule the pastor 
can only suffer in silence and go on with those who 
have a mind to work in spite of the slackers and the 
hinderers. Silence is the best answer to idle slander. 
But sometimes the man of God has to speak. And then 
it should be to the point and very brief and in a way 

^26 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

to help the cause of Christ, not to do harm. As a 
rule, well-doing is the best way to put to silence the 
ignorance of foolish men (1 Peter 2:15). John does 
not mind ostracism by Diotrephes save as that leads 
others astray. 

But Diotrephes draws the line on all of John's fol- 
lowers. Diotrephes was *'not content therewith." He 
was not satisfied with his vindictive opposition to 
John the Elder. "Neither doth he himself receive the 
brethren." Probably these missionary brethren had 
letters of commendation from John. That item would 
only anger Diotrephes all the more. It was now his 
habit to close his door against anybody aligned with 
the Apostle John. He will not recognize the Elder. 
He will not recognize the followers or co-laborers of 
the Elder. Hence John pleads with Gains to take 
special interest in those who ''for the sake of the Name 
went forth" (3 John 7). One recalls the language 
of Luke in Acts 5:41, "Rejoicing that they were 
counted worthy to suffer dishonor for the Name." 
This way of referring to Jesus became common, it is 
clear. The problem of welcoming those who traveled 
from place to place and who claimed to be at work in 
the name of the Lord was a vital one for a long time 
as is seen in "The Teaching of the Twelve Apostles," 
Xn, I: "And let everyone that comes in the name of 
the Lord be received and then after testing him ye 
will know." The brother who claimed to be for the 
Lord had the presumption in his favor, but some 
wolves traveled in sheep's clothing and a certain 
amount of discretion was called for then and now. 
Even today, with all our publicity and modern facili- 

DIOTREPHES THE CHURCH REGULATOR 227 

ties for information, people are only too often taken 
in by slick-tongued adventurers who make money out 
of gullible brethren and sisters and then move on to 
fresh pastures. There is some advantage in having 
some sort of a line drawn. John is not here demand- 
ing that Diotrephes reform, but that Gains see to it 
that John's missionaries are taken care of w^hen they 
come. One of my clearest childhood memories is that 
of EHas Dodson, a quaint and godly missionary of 
the old Home Mission Board of Southern Baptists. 
This gifted and consecrated man went from house to 
house on his mule and usually had only one suit of 
clothes. He used to ask for a dollar for the Indians 
and he generally got it. He would write postcards 
ahead about his entertainment or send little notes to 
the denominational paper concerning his appointments 
and entertainment. He was a modern example of 
John's traveling missionaries from church to church. 
Elias Dodson did much to create a real missionary 
spirit in Virginia and North Carolina. Even those who 
were opposed to missions found it hard to put a ban 
on Elias Dodson and his mule. 

But Diotrephes sought to dictate to the whole church 
a line of conduct toward John and his missionaries. 
"And them that would (receive the brethren) he for- 
biddeth and casteth them out of the church." Here we 
see the rule or ruin policy of the church "boss." This 
self-willed leader is not content that he shall be al- 
lowed to treat John and his missionaries as outsiders. 
He demands that everyone in the church do the same 
thing. He had the whip handle in the church and was 
determined to force his will upon the entire member- 

228 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

ship. It is not clear whether he actually succeeded or 
not. The tense in the Greek allows merely the threat 
and the attempt for ''casts out." In John 9 134 the 
Pharisees actually ''cast out" (aorist tense) the blind 
man who stood out against them that Jesus was not a 
sinner, but a prophet of God. They turned him out 
of the synagogue and then Jesus met him and saved 
him, a grotesque picture of a synagogue that fought 
against God in Christ. If Diotrephes actually com- 
pelled this church to expel those who dared to welcome 
the missionaries of John, it was an honor to be out- 
side of that church. But the fact that Gaius was still 
a member of the church, an elder apparently, argues 
for the conclusion that Diotrephes was simply terroris- 
ing the brotherhood by his threats. But it was bad 
enough for a church to have a "bulldozer" like Dio- 
trephes who blocked the path of progress for the 
church. He had become the chief liability to the 
church instead of its chief asset. 

So John exposes Diotrephes plainly to Gaius. John 
is not afraid to face Diotrephes. He is anxious to do 
so, but he cannot come yet. Meanwhile, he puts Gaius 
on his guard and urges him to break the power of 
Diotrephes over the church by daring to show him up 
as he really is. Gaius owes this duty to the church. 
But John hopes to come some day. "Therefore, if I 
come, I will bring to remembrance his deeds which he 
does." One needs only to read 1 John 2 to see how 
plainly John can speak when the occasion calls for it. 
It becomes a sad duty sometimes to expose the wicked 
ambition of a man with the rule or ruin policy. It is 
better that such a man drop out of the church than 

DIOTREPHES THE CHURCH REGULATOR 

that the church wither and die. Our churches need 
leadership, but not domination. The difference is 
vital. Leaders lead, bosses drive their slaves under 
orders. 

CHAPTER XVI 

EPAPHRODITUS THE MINISTER WHO RISKED 
ALL FOR CHRIST 

All that we really know about Epaphroditus we 
learn from Paul's Epistle to the Philippians, but that 
little is exceedingly suggestive and helpful. The name 
is the same as the shortened form Epaphras that ap- 
pears in Colossians 17; 4:12; Philemon 2;^. But 
there is no likelihood that it is the same person, for 
Philippi and Colossae are quite too far apart for the 
same man to be a messenger from both cities to Paul 
in Rome at about the same time. Besides the name 
is a not uncommon one on the inscriptions. So we 
must rely on Philippians 2:25-30 and 4:10-18 for all 
our knowledge of his life and work. But these pas- 
sages furnish us a reasonably clear picture of a bold 
and courageous personality who hesitated not to do 
his simple duty in the face of great difficulty and even 
of peril. In this respect he is a fine example of thou- 
sands of loyal ministers of Christ who have done the 
work of the hero with none of the halo that comes to 
many men in other callings of life. The call for the 
heroic still appeals to the best type of young men who 
enter the ministry of Jesus Christ. Many of these 
suffer in silence and in poverty at home and die like 
martyrs on the foreign field. It is all in the day's 
work with these men, true soldiers of Christ. 

230 

EPAPHRODITUS WHO RISKED ALL 231 

Epaphroditus was the messenger of the church in 
Philippi to bear the gifts of this noble church to Paul 
while in Rome. This church was the very first that 
gave Paul actual financial help in his missionary propa- 
ganda as Paul expressly states (Philippians 4:15-16). At 
first Philippi stood alone among the early churches in 
this "fellowship" or "partnership" (koinonia) with 
Paul. Paul greatly appreciated this active participa- 
tion with him in his campaign to win the Gentiles to 
Christ and he mentions it a number of times (Phil. 
1:5, 7; 2:30, 4:15). They had come to Paul's help 
several times before while in Thessalonica (Philippians 4:16) 
and in Corinth also at a time when Paul was in actual 
want (2 Corinthians 11 :7-io) because the church at Corinth 
was critical and suspicious and not generous. So once 
again after some years the church at Philippi has blos- 
somed out ("sprouted up," Philippians 4:10) again with a 
rich reminder of their love for Paul, a sweet aroma 
that was pleasing to God as well as to Paul (4:18) 
and that God alone could reward with His riches in 
grace. Paul terms Epaphroditus, the bearer of this 
gracious bounty, the church's "apostle" (apostolos), 
or missionary. It is the same word that he applies to 
the "apostles of the churches" (2 Corinthians 8:23) who 
were associated with Paul in the gathering of the great 
collection for the poor saints in Jerusalem. It is the 
original and general meaning of the word that appears 
in a technical sense when applied to Paul the Apostle 
and to the Twelve Apostles. But Paul does not hesi- 
tate to call Epaphroditus "your apostle." He is also 
"your minister." Here the word (leitourgos) is the 
same as our "liturgy." It means one who does work 

232 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

for the people and had more than the modern cere- 
monial sense, though it recalls the service of the 
priests in the temple service and ritual. 

In fulfilling this special mission to Paul Epaphrodi- 
tus was filling up what had been lacking in the min- 
istry of the Philippian church for some years (Phil. 
4:30). They had loved Paul all the while. He knew 
that. But they had lacked opportunity to show their 
unchanging love for Paul the founder of their church. 
But now that long imprisonment has befallen Paul 
they manage to have some share in the alleviation of 
Paul's tribulation (Philippians 4:14). So Paul puts it down 
in his column of credits to this church (4:15), once 
the only church with such a column. Epaphroditus 
did his part in the transaction nobly and Paul received 
the gifts. 

But Epaphroditus fell sick on his arrival in Rome. 
The voyage was a long one for those days, unless he 
came partly by land to Brundisium and on to Rome. 
But travel had its risks on land even with the fine 
Roman roads. The inns were poor and robbers were 
numerous. But the enemy that attacked Epaphroditus 
was apparently the terrible Roman fever (violent 
malaria) that is still a peril to strangers when they 
come. The attack was apparently sudden. "For in- 
deed he fell sick nigh unto death" (Philippians 2:27). It is 
one of the speculations of the moderns about Greece 
and Rome that the mosquito did as much as the bar- 
barian to bring down these great peoples of the past. 
Only the hardiest could survive malignant malaria. The 
illness of Epaphroditus was evidently prolonged for 
the report of it reached PhilippI and the news came 

EPAPHRODITUS WHO RISKED ALL 233 

back to Epaphroditus that his friends in Philippi had 
heard that he had fallen sick (Philippians 4:26). 

The effect of this information upon Epaphroditus, 
who was now a convalescent, was very depressing. He 
was like a college boy who is ill and who hears how 
distressed his mother is because of his illness. Epa- 
phroditus was now longing to go back as soon as his 
strength permitted. Paul implies that he was home- 
sick by his weakness and absence from home. Paul 
had come to be very fond of Epaphroditus. He prob- 
ably had him in his own hired house as much as he 
could. He certainly visited him often. He calls him 
"my brother and co-worker and fellow-soldier.'' Paul 
does not use the term "fellow-prisoner" so that Epa- 
phroditus suffered no hardship of that nature because 
of his service to Paul who was allowed to receive his 
friends freely (Acts 28:30-31). But Paul had come 
to love this "fellow-soldier" who had incurred such 
peril "for the work of Christ" (Philippians 4:30). He 
feared that he would have "sorrow upon sorrow" like 
the waves that pile up on one another when the bil- 
lows roll over us. That fate seemed to be Paul's, but 
God had mercy upon Epaphroditus and upon Paul and 
spared this brave soldier of Christ. So Paul is grate- 
ful and glad. 

But the close call, as we say, of Epaphroditus 
raises the question of how much risk a preacher should 
take in doing his work for Christ. Certainly no min- 
ister is justified in neglecting the ordinary precautions 
of health. He has no right to assume that God will 
make him immune against disease because he is a 
preacher of the gospel if he violates the customary 

234 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

rules of hygiene. Some ministers eat too much and 
exercise too little. They have nervous headaches as 
a result and lose sleep and keep irregular hours. They 
expose themselves unduly and unwisely when over- 
heated after preaching. They rush out into the cold 
air with heated respirator)^ organs. On the other 
hand some preachers are overcautious and "molly- 
coddle" themselves and become hypersensitive by 
wearing too heavy clothing and living in overheated 
rooms. Some preachers are the victims of quacks and 
patent medicines, not to say dope, and are the dupes 
of scheming adventurers. But, when all is said, it is 
the duty of the preacher, to have a healthy body to do 
the Lord's work, if he can have it. But many a deli- 
cate man has wrought a long and laborious work for 
Christ by taking proper care of himself. John A. 
Broadus was such a man. But the problem raised by 
the case of Epaphroditus is whether the preacher 
should take known and foreseen risks to do the work 
of Christ. Paul says that Epaphroditus literally 
''gambled with his hfe" (Phil."4'':3o). The word used 
is our parabola which was employed of the gambler's 
dice. Certainly Epaphroditus knew of the peril of 
the Roman fever. But then other men went to Rome 
on business and on pleasure. So today drummers 
for American tobacco companies go to China and for 
gain go to Africa. Physicians risk their lives every 
day to save human life. Should not preachers risk 
theirs to save human souls? When the yellow 
fever epidemic was last in New Orleans, Dr. D. I. 
Purser, one of the Baptist pastors, was away on his 
vacation. He boldly came back to minister to the 

EPAPHRODITUS WHO RISKED ALL 235 

sick and to bury the dead. He stood at his post and, 
before the scourge was over, fell a victim to the plague 
and died. He lost his life and saved it. Today no 
name is more honored in New Orleans than that of 
David Ingram Purser, Sr. It is the spirit of the true 
soldier and Epaphroditus was Paul's "fellow-soldier." 
The soldier cannot falter where the path of duty lies. 
Once that is plain, there is no alternative. Each man 
must bear his own cross whether it be a personal afflic- 
tion or a call to go into the valley of death. It is good 
to think that the ministry today is not without men 
of the heroic spirit who quietly and simply meet the 
hard demands of their calling. There are some quit- 
ters, some slackers, some deserters, some few traitors, 
alas. But the great body of modern ministers measure 
up to the high standard of Epaphroditus as men who 
are willing to risk all for the work of Christ. They 
do not do it for the sake of notoriety, but for the love 
of Christ. In the early centuries these "riskers" were 
called parabolani, men who missed the martyr's death, 
but who deserved the martyr's crown, for they stood 
in their places and did a full man's duty in the hour of 
peril. It was this spirit in the pioneer preachers of the 
United States that laid broad the foundations of 
American liberty and life. The missionaries today 
exhibit it in numerous instances. It is seen in some 
of the "sky pilots" at home who do hard work with 
little recognition among men. Many a country 
preacher has measured up to the ideal of Epaphroditus. 
He has done a great work in a small place and that 
is better than a little work in a big place. 

Paul is now sending Epaphroditus back to Philippi. 

236 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

He had hoped to come himself ere long and still cher- 
ishes that purpose when once he is free again. He 
cannot spare Timothy just yet. So Epaphroditus is 
going back and that gives Paul the occasion to write 
this most beautiful of all his wonderful Epistles, a 
letter of the utmost delicacy and insight, sympathy and 
elevation of sentiment. There will be triple joy in his 
going. Epaphroditus will be happy, the Philippians 
will rejoice to see him again, and Paul will be less sor- 
rowful by reason of their joy. The keynote of the 
letter is joy in Christ and Paul is exuberant in spite 
of many untoward circumstances. The secret of hap- 
piness Paul has learned by now and he finds it in the 
constant fellowship with Christ, not in the changing 
outward conditions of his environment. 

Paul makes a plea that the Philippians receive Epa- 
phroditus with all joy. It would seem to be hardly 
necessary to make that request, but Paul leaves nothing 
undone that will add to the happiness of Epaphroditus 
who had done so much to fulfill the wishes of the Philip- 
pians and to add to Paul's comfort. His daring and 
his sufferings had endeared him all the more to both 
Paul and the Philippians. He deserves special honor 
for his work's sake. He had been a hero of the Cross 
as truly as Alvin York and Sergeant Woodfill de- 
serve recognition for their prowess in France. "Hold 
such in honor," Paul urges, ''because for the work 
of the Lord he came nigh unto death, risking his life 
that he might fill up what was lacking in your service 
to me." We can easily conjecture the joy of the greet- 
ing given Epaphroditus when he arrived and delivered 
Paul's gracious letter of gratitude which was read to 

EPAPHRODITUS WHO RISKED ALL 237 

the whole church. They would recognize the same 
dauntless spirit that sang praises at midnight in the 
Philippian jail. 

It is fitting that a plea be made that due honor be 
given by the churches to their ministers who live and 
labor for the work of the Lord. In most instances the 
plea is not needed for these pastors receive the full 
love and loyalty of an appreciative and a devoted people. 
In a few cases the minister is not worthy of special 
honor because he has not given himself wholly and 
heartily to the work of the Lord. People are keenly 
sensitive to slackers in the ministry. As a rule, these 
men sooner or later drop out. But sometimes zealous 
and consecrated ministers do not receive proper appre- 
ciation of their work while they are living. Their 
memory will be revered when they are dead, but so 
many people are careless and indifferent and just take 
for granted what needs to be expressed by word and 
deed. Love grows by expression. So cheer up the 
heart of your pastor by kind words of genuine love 
and by filling his larder a little fuller. Add something 
to his salary and so lighten the burden of family 
cares and set his mind and heart free to do the work 
of the Lord that he loves and that is so much needed. 

A special word should be uttered for the old preacher 
who has toiled long and faithfully on a pitifully small 
salary. He has been able to lay by little or nothing and 
people no longer care for his preaching. Perhaps he 
is also feeble and in any case few avenues are open 
to him by which he can earn his living. Most de- 
nominations are now pensioning these soldiers of the 
Cross as a matter of simple justice. It is done by the 

238 TYPES OF PREACHERS 

government and by the railroads and all decent con- 
cerns for their employees. These men should not be 
regarded as paupers or treated as dependents. They 
deserve more than they vi^ill ever receive. The least 
that we can do for them is to give them some of the 
comforts of life for their old age and to give them the 
respect and honor that is their due. ''Hold such men 
in honor." 

There v^as never a time when the work of Christ 
made a stronger appeal to the heroic element in men 
than now. The tempting attractions of other callings 
draw away the lighthearted and the unstable. But the 
men who can read the signs of the times can hear the 
cry of China's millions for light and leading out of 
the grasping selfishness of the nations that are ex- 
ploiting her. The old gods of China are dead. They 
can no longer beat tom-toms to drive away the demons 
of greed that grind the nation's life beneath the mod- 
ern juggernauts. The students of China feel the throb 
of the freedom that is in Christ. They are blindly 
striking out for help. The men of today who hear 
the call of Russia take their lives in their hands. And 
yet somebody must heed the despairing cry of a dying 
world. Thank God for men like Epaphroditus who 
have the courage to go at any cost. Plague and flood 
and famine only serve to challenge such men to high 
endeavor for the sake of Christ who gave his life 
that we might live and have more abundant life for 
others. 

THE END 

BS2430.R649 ^ ^, 

Types of preachers in the New 

Princeton Theological Seminary-Speer Library 

1 1012 00013 3894 

