i^TflTSifj^ 

"V" 

ocr 3 1975 

% 

2t(««ML ^^ 

'BV40IO 
.MM- 

The Ministry of the Word 

By G. CAMPBELL MORGAN 

EXPOSITORT 

The Teaching of Christ. Cloth 

The Crises of the Christ. Popular Edition 

The Study and Teaching of the English Bible. 
Cloth 

The Missionary Manifesto. Being a Study of the 
Great Commission 

The Analyzed Bible. Introductory Volumes. Vols. 

1:11, III. Each 

Analytical l^olumes. Vol. IV, The Gospel Ac- 
cording to John. Vol. V, The Book of Job. Vol. 
VI, Romans. Vol. VII. VIII, The Prophecy of 
Isaiah, I and II. IX, Genesis. X, The Gospel of 
Matthew. Each 

Living Messages of the Books of the Bible. 
Now Complete in Two Volumes. 1:2mo, cloth, each, 
Vol. I, O. T.— Genesis to Malachi. Vol. II, N. T. 
— Matthew to Revelation. 

The Parables of the Kingdom. Expositions of 
Matt. XIII • . . 

The Spirit of God. Cloth 

A First Century Message to Twentieth Cen- 
tury Christians 

God's Methods With Man. In Time— Past, Pres- 
ent and Future. With Colored Chart . 

Wherein Have We Robbed God?…

God's Perfect Will 

The Ten Commandments 

The Hidden Years at Nazareth .... 

DEVOriONAL 
Sunrise. " Behold, He Cometh 1 " Cloth 
The Bible and the Cross. Cloth .... 

Christian Principles. Cloth 

Mountains and Valleys in the Ministry of Jeaua. 

Boards 

The Practice of Prayer. Cloth .... 
The Simple Things of the Christian Life. Cloth, 
The True Estimate of Life and How to Live. 

Cloth 

Tha Christ of To-Day. What? Whence? Whither? 

Cloth 

The Life of the Christian. Cloth .... 
Evangelism. Cloth ....... 

Life Problems . 

Discipleship. Cloth 

•* All Things New." A Message to New Converts. 

Paper 

Christ and the Bible. Paper 

The James Sprunt Lectures delivered 
Union Theological Seminary in VirgimM 

^tP 2 197; 

The Ministry of the 
Word 

G. CAMPBELL'' MORGAN, D.D. 

New York Chicaoo 

Fleming H, Revell Company 

JLONPPi; AND Edinbuhoh 

Copyright, 19 19, by 
FLEMING H. REVELL COMPANY 

New York: 1 58 Fifth Avenue 
Chicago: 1 7 North Wabash Ave. 
London: 2 1 Paternoster Square 
Edinburgh: 75 Princes Street 

Dedicated reverently and gladly to 
THE WORD OF GOD 

MY LORD AND SAVIOUR 

Whose Gift of Grace has been my only equip- 
ment FOR THE Ministry of the Word; and 
Whose tender and long-suffering love and 

PATIENCE have BORNE WITH, AND OVERRULED, ALL 
MY DERELICTIONS IN THE EXERCISE THEREOF. If, 
IN THE FURTHER EXERCISE OF THAT ASTONISHING, 

AMAZING Grace, He will use this EXPObiTioN 

TO HELP MY YOUNGER BRETHREN IN THE SACRED 
OFFICE, THEN WILL MY HEART BE GLAD. 

Oft when the Word is on me to deliver, 

Lifts the illusion and the truth lies bare, 
Desert or throng, the city or the river, 

Melts in a lucid Paradise of air— 
Only like souls I see the folk thereunder. 

Bound who should conquer, slaves who 
should be kings— 
Hearing their one hope with an empty wonder, 

Sadly contented in a show of things; — 
Then with a rush the intolerable craving 

Shivers throughout me like a trumpet-call— 
Oh to save these! to perish for their saving, 

Die for their life, be offered for them all! 

Contents 

Prologue 9 

The title, " The Ministry of the Word." 
The Setting of the Phrase. 

I 

The Fundamental Conceptions 

A. The Ministry 19 

B. The Word 34 

II 

The Primitive Ideal 

A. The Word as the Truth of the Apostle 53 

B. The Word as the Burden of the Prophet 72 

C. The Word as the Gospel of the Evan- 

gelist ....... 92 

D. The Word as the Wisdom of the Pastor 

AND Teacher 112 

III 

The Modern Application 

A. The Changed Conditions . 

B. The Unchanged Obligation . 

C. The Preparation of the Ministry 

D. The Exercise of the Vocation 

Epilogue . 

The First Responsibility. 
" Prayer." 

156 
176 
198 

215 

Prologue 

THE phrase which constitutes the gen- 
eral title of these Lectures has been 
deliberately selected, as giving a Bib- 
lical indication of the theme I propose to discuss. 
It occurs in a very familiar passage in the Book 
of the Acts of the Apostles. An appreciation of 
the historic background of that passage, and an 
understanding of the particular story contained 
therein, will help us to find our true atmosphere, 
and so start us on the right lines of our con- 
sideration. 

The historic background is that of the initia- 
tion of the new Age of the Spirit. It has all 
the freshness and fascination of dawn. It is 
certainly true that no pages of the Biblical liter- 
ature are more perennially interesting. We 
have all read them again and again from child- 
hood, and yet whenever we come back to them, 
they make the same arresting and inspiring 
appeal to mind and heart and will. We seem, 
as we read, to feel the breath of the winds of 
God, and to burn with the enthusiasm, which 

9 

lo "THE MINISTRY OF THE WORD" 

created the wonder of the men of Jerusalem, 
as they observed its flaming forth, in the band 
of Christian disciples. By the baptism of the 
Holy Spirit these men and women, who had 
hitherto been devoted followers of Jesus of Naz- 
areth, were brought into mystic but mighty re- 
lationship with Him as the victorious and as- 
cended Lord; and were thus perfectly equipped 
for witness bearing. Through this witness, the 
number of believers was rapidly increased. Day 
by day there were added to the Lord, and so to 
the glad company, those who received the Holy 
Spirit. These realized their communion with 
each other, through their common fellowship 
with their Lord. 

The Day which had thus dawned was a Day 
of remarkable power, of which there were 
abundant signs. The healing of the man at the 
Beautiful Gate of the Temple, as the members 
of the Jewish council admitted, was a '' notable 
miracle "; and so impressed with this fact were 
the members of that council, that much as they 
desired to put an end to the Christian propa- 
ganda, they dared not, then, take any further 
steps against the Apostles; but after threaten- 
ing them, they permitted them to go back to 
their own company. 

»'tHE MINISTRY OF THE WORD'* it 

The Day, moreover, was one of a strange and 
awe-inspiring purity. Within the new fellow- 
ship hypocrisy and untruth could not exist, as 
the swift judgment which fell upon Ananias and 
Sapphira proved. The effect of this was felt 
within the Church and beyond it; so that, to use 
the suggestive phrase of the historian,, no man 
durst join himself to them. New members were 
added by the Lord, and by Him alone. 

As the movement grew, hostility became 
more daring. The Apostles were next impris- 
oned, but they were supernaturally liberated, 
and fear fell afresh upon their enemies. Still 
resisting the power of the Spirit, the rulers beat 
the Apostles, and then were confronted by the 
astonishing spectacle of men who rejoiced " that 
they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor 
for the Name." Such were these wonderful 
days. Within the fellowship, " the Twelve " 
were exercising a ministry of teaching and guid- 
ance on behalf of the whole multitude of those 
who, believing, were being added to the Lord. 

The paragraph in which the phrase occurs 
opens with the words, "In these days"; and 
reveals their special characteristics in the state- 
ment, " the number of the disciples was multi- 
plying." It then records the incident of the 

12 "THE MINISTRY OF THE WORD" 

difficulty which arose in the distribution of the 
common funds. This difficulty resulted from 
the persistence of an old trouble within the 
Christian atmosphere, that of the mutual sus- 
picion and unfriendliness of the Hellenists and 
the Hebrews. The former complained, in all 
probability not without reason, that the He- 
brews within the community neglected the Hel- 
lenist widows. The dispute itself has no inter- 
est for us now, but the way in which it was 
dealt with leads us to our theme, and throws 
considerable initial light thereupon. 

When the murmuring occurred, the Apostles 
" called the multitude of the disciples " to- 
gether. In other words, the difficulty was dealt 
with by the whole Church in solemn assembly, 
under the guidance of the Apostles. There was 
no panic, no dissension. The matter was speed- 
ily and smoothly adjusted. In the midst of His 
people was the Lord Himself, according to His 
covenant; and He, by the Holy Spirit, made 
known His will. The action thus taken was a 
very remarkable one in many ways, but they are 
not immediately relevant to our theme. One 
matter, however, is of importance. 

This was made the occasion for a necessary 
and vital division of responsibility in the interest 

"THE MINISTRY OF THE WORD" 13 

of the life and service of the Church. From 
henceforth there were to be within her borders 
two orders in the one ministry; the one having 
to do with the serving of tables, and the other 
with the service of the Word. It is in this con- 
nection that our phrase occurs. Having charged 
the Church to elect " men of good report full 
of the Spirit and of wisdom," for the business 
of serving tables, the Apostles said; "We will 
continue steadfastly in prayer, and in the min- 
istry of the Word J' 

That phrase is one of abiding importance in 
its revelation of the true nature and method 
of one aspect of Christian Ministry; that aspect 
which demands the devotion of the whole time 
and energy of those called upon to exercise it, 
and which cannot be perfectly exercised by 
those whose time and energy are taken up with 
other matters, however right and proper such 
matters may be in themselves. Within the 
phrase itself are contained words which suggest 
the fundamental conceptions. To these we shall 
give careful attention before proceeding to deal 
with the primitive ideal, or attempting to make 
any modern application. In proportion as we 
accurately apprehend the significance of the 
terms "the Ministry" and "the Word," we 

14 "THE MINISTRY OF THE WORD" 

shall be prepared for a consideration of the 
whole subject of " the Ministry of the Word," 
and the privilege and responsibility of those 
called thereto. 

Thus it will be realized that in these lectures 
I am desirous of considering the subject of the 
Christian Ministry solely from the standpoint 
of New Testament ideals. It is, however, in- 
evitable that there should enter into the con- 
sideration the element of personal experience 
and coloring. In the work of preparation I 
have attempted to avoid that, so far as possible. 
Necessarily it could not be wholly absent from 
my own thinking, nor therefore will it be absent 
from the minds of my hearers. My apology 
then for the measure in which these personal 
elements obtain in my outlook must be that of 
the experience which has created them, and I 
may be pardoned for referring to them in a few 
sentences. 

My father was a Bible preacher and teacher 
of no mean order. He was a man of one book, 
in a sense in which his son never has been. He 
lived to the four score years, and during that 
period never read a work of fiction. He had no 
knowledge of general literature. He did know 
his Bible. Under his influence and guidance I 

"THE MINISTRY OF THE WORD" 15 

began to preach, delivering my first public ad- 
dress when a boy of thirteen years of age. 
From then until now, a period of over forty 
years, I have continued to preach, except for 
two years, when, through partial eclipse of faith, 
I had to face the specters of the mind. 

During the earlier part of the time I was 
being trained for the work of teaching, and 
doing that work. Throughout that time I was 
preaching on Sundays, and conducting evangel- 
istic missions during holidays. 

In the year 1886 I gave up my work as a 
teacher, and devoted myself wholly to evangel- 
istic work. During the later period, that is for 
the past three and thirty years, I have continued 
to preach. My work has never been Apostolic, 
as I understand that phase of ministry, and 
as I shall presently attempt to explain it. It 
has been upon occasion Prophetic, constantly 
Evangelistic, and principally Pastoral and 
Teaching. 

These then are the facts concerning the expe- 
riences which must aflfect my thinking. I have 
mentioned them now to dismiss them, having 
recognized them. I trust they will be as little 
obvious as possible, and that our consideration 
may be wholly conditioned within Biblical light. 

I 

The Fundamental Conceptions 

THE MINISTRY 

WITHIN the phrase the " Ministry of 
the Word," there is included the 
whole conception of the work of 
preaching as distinguished from that of serv- 
ing tables. It should at once be recognized 
that this is a distinction which must be made in 
practice as well as in theory; but it is equally 
important that the distinction should be made 
intelligently, that is with scriptural warrant, 
rather than on the basis of prejudice or custom. 
It must be made in the interest of the work of 
preaching, not in that of the preachers. To say 
that, is simply to interpret at once the meaning 
of the Twelve when they took the action which 
set them apart from their brethren. They were 
not actuated by any desire to create an order of 
superiority for themselves, but wholly by a 
passion for the complete success of the particu- 
lar work to which they were appointed. The 

19 

20 THE MINISTRY 

work of serving tables is equally sacred. This 
is evident from the apostolic description of the 
character and qualifications of the men who 
were to be appointed to that work. They were 
to be men " of good report, full of the Spirit 
and of wisdom." The two orders of the minis- 
try were not intended to be conceived of as 
higher and lower. They were equally impor- 
tant and complementary. The work of each 
was dependent for complete success upon that 
of the other. Deacons might also be preachers, 
as we soon discover in the case of Philip the 
Evangelist. The probability is that in such a 
case the work of the Diaconate was given up. 
The story of Philip would lead us to that conclu- 
sion. But even if so, it was not because the 
work of serving tables was not most sacred, but 
because no man could perfectly fulfill the work 
of the service of the Word, while occupied in 
the doing of the other. All this will be even 
more clearly seen as we go forward with our 
study. 

Our first business must be that of attempting 
to get these fundamental conceptions clearly 
before us, for in proportion as we do so, we 
shall be the better prepared for the fuller con- 
siderations and applications which we propose. 

THE MINISTRY 21 

The two conceptions are suggested by the 
terms " The Ministry/' and " The Word." The 
second of these reveals the central and supreme 
matter; while the first indicates the method by 
which the work is to be accomplished. We 
shall devote a Lecture to each. The first, that 
of the revelation of method suggested by the 
term " The Ministry," is our subject now. 

In order to an understanding of the funda- 
mental conception suggested by the term The 
Ministry, we will first examine the place which 
the term occupies in our paragraph, and then 
glance on to the development of the thought, as 
it is found in one outstanding passage in the 
apostolic writings. 

Taking the Revised Version, we find three 
words which we will note; in verse one, minis- 
tration; in verse two, serve; and in verse four, 
ministry. It will be granted at once that these 
three words represent the same idea. In the 
Greek New Testament this is even more appar- 
ent, where the words respectively are diakbtiia^ 
diakbnein, and diakbnia, the first and the last 
being identical. The special word of our term 
then is the word diakdmUy translated ministration 
in verse one, and ministry in verse four. What 
then, quite apart from any interpretation result- 

22 THE MINISTRY 

ing from our habit and custom in the use of the 
word, is the first and simplest idea that it sug- 
gests? 

Unquestionably the idea is that of the work 
of a servant, the carrying out of responsibility 
under command. The Greek word is derived 
from the word diakonbs^ which simply means 
an attendant, a waiter; which in turn comes 
from an obsolete verb, diakb, to run on errands. 
The simple thought then is that of service in the 
most elemental sense, that of having work ap- 
pointed, and that of doing that work under mas- 
tery. Let us carefully observe that this idea is 
never properly eliminated, nor changed in any 
subsequent use of the word. That is the 
thought in the first verse. The daily ministra- 
tion was that of the actual giving out, from the 
common fund, of the appointed portions to the 
needy members of the community. Obviously 
it is equally the thought of the word serve in the 
second verse. When the Apostles declared 
that it was not meet that they should serve 
tables, they simply meant that the urgency of 
the work to which they were specifically ap- 
pointed was such, that neither their time nor 
strength should be devoted to the actual details 
of calculation and disbursement, which were 

THE MINISTRY 23 

necessary in order to the maintenance of the 
material aspects of the fellowship, 

I have drawn special attention to these simple 
and obvious facts, in order to leave upon the 
mind most definitely the true impression of the 
value of the word ministry, for it is of the ut- 
most importance that this should never be lost 
sight of. Whatever developments we may pres- 
ently have to consider, this quality persists. 
The idea of dignity, or of official importance, or 
prerogative, is entirely absent from the word 
itself. Of course there is a dignity in all service, 
there are prerogatives which appertain to serv- 
ice; but these result from the nature of the work 
to be done, and only exist in order that the 
work may be done thoroughly. Ministry con- 
notes subservience, submission; and implicates 
necessarily, diligence and fidelity. This is 
clearly emphasized in the Apostles' declaration 
that in " the ministry of the Word " they would 
continue steadfastly, the phrase being the transla- 
tion of one word, which signifies an earnest de- 
votion to the business in hand, a pushing for- 
ward with strength in order to accomplishment. 

This conception obtains in reference to both 
lines of service recognized in the paragraph 
under consideration, that of tables, and that of 

24 THE MINISTRY 

the Word. In eadi case the objective is the 
fellowship, the koinbnia; that sacred unity of 
Christ with His people, and their consequent 
union with each other. This fellowship is far 
more than an abstract idea. It is a living fact, 
and is to find expression in spiritual develop- 
ment and service, and in material well-being. 
The tables are for the carrying out of the latter; 
the Word is for the realization of the former. 
Hence the sacredness of the tables for the prac- 
tice of fellowship. Hence the sacredness of the 
Word for the practice of fellowship. Hence 
also the sacredness of Ministry, whether of 
tables or of the Word. 

Thus we see that the fundamental conception 
is that of diligent Faithful devotion to an ap- 
pointed work. Apart from that, there is neither 
dignity nor privilege attached to the work of 
Ministry. All this, I repeat, must never for a 
moment be lost sight of in our consideration of 
The Ministry of the Word, and much less in our 
exercise thereof. 

We may now proceed to consider a develop- 
ment of the idea found in one outstanding pas- 
sage in the apostolic writings. Before doing so 
however, and even at the risk of being charged 
with unnecessary repetition, let me insist upon 

THE MINISTRY 25 

it, that development does not mean destruction 
or change. It is rather the evolution of that 
vi^hich is involved, the application of a persistent 
principle to the supreme necessities of the work. 
In the central idea of ministry with which we 
have been dealing, there is no development, nor 
can there be. Whatever the phase of ministry, 
it always remains ministry, in the simplest and 
therefore the final senses of the word. The de- 
velopment is in the method by which service is 
rendered, and in its application to certain as- 
pects of the one work. 

The passage in which this development is 
most fully dealt with in the New Testament is 
found in Paul's letter to the Ephesians (Ephesians 4:
1-13). Let us first take a broad view of the 
passage, and then observe its particular revela- 
tion on this subject of ministry. 

The passage opens the second part of the 
letter, that in which the Apostle applied the 
truths already enunciated, to the walk or be- 
haviour of those to whom he was writing. The 
keynote of the whole of this second section is 
found in the words; " I…beseech you to 
walk worthily of the calling wherewith we were 
called." In order to this, and as the first condi- 
tion of doing so, he urged them *' to keep the 

26 THE MINISTRY 

unity of the Spirit." This led him to write the 
passage in which that unity is so graphically set 
forth, and in the midst of which we find the idea 
of Ministry so fully developed. 

In verses four, five, and six, we have a vision 
of the unity in itself. The organism is first de- 
scribed; "One body, and one Spirit, even as 
also ye were called in one hope of your calling." 
That is an inclusive description of the Church. 
It is one Body, Christ Himself being the Head, 
and all who share His life being members. His 
Body therefore has one life, that of the Spirit, 
Who is in the Head, and in the members, and 
thus unifies them in mind, and heart, and will, 
and power. This organism has one function, 
that of fulfilling the calling which the Apostle 
had described in the earlier part of his letter. 

Next in order, and in the briefest but most 
pregnant phrases, we have an account of the 
generation of that organism; " One Lord, one 
faith, one baptism." The one Lord is Christ, 
as in the perfections of His Priesthood and 
Kingship, He is presented in the Gospel to the 
eye of men. The one faith is that of the repent- 
ing submission, and complete confidence, by 
which men yield themselves to Him as Savior 
and JUord. The one baptism is that of the Holy 

THE MINISTRY 27 

Spirit, which is the Divine response to human 
faith, and by which those who receive it are 
included in the Body whose function is that of 
the Divine caUing. 

Finally, the ultimate and resulting relation is 
described in the words; " One God and Father 
of all. Who is over all, and through all, and in 
all." The all refers in each case to the Head 
and members of the Body, that is to Christ and 
all believers; while the prepositions mark the 
different phases of relationship; the of is in- 
elusive, the over marks sovereignty, the through 
signifies operation, and the in indicates com- 
munion. 

Following this vision of the unity, there is 
a description of the growth of the organism, 
which occupies verses seven to thirteen. For 
the purposes of our present consideration we 
need only note the main statement which is dis- 
covered as we bring the seventh and thirteenth 
verses together; " Unto each one of us was the 
grace given according to the measure of the gift 
of Christ…till we all attain unto the unity 
of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of 
God, unto a full-grown man, unto the measure 
of the stature of the fullness of Christ." 

A careful examination of the passage will 

28 THE MINISTRY 

show that this bringing together of these verses 
is perfectly justified. All that lies between is of 
the nature of exposition of the phrase " the gift 
of Christ." The method of growth is that of 
the development of the gift of grace given to 
each member, in its relationship to the gifts of 
grace bestowed on all the rest. As all these are 
received and become operative, the whole Body 
grows towards its completion, towards the 
*' full-grown man," towards *' the measure of 
the stature of the fullness of Christ." Neither 
of these latter phrases applies to an individual 
Christian, but to the complete and perfected 
Church, which alone can realize '' the stature 
of the fullness of Christ." 

This brings us to the matter specially perti- 
nent to our present consideration, that namely 
of Ministry. It is dealt with in the verses eight 
to twelve to which we have already referred as 
being expository of the phrase in the seventh 
verse, " the gift of Christ." 

Having declared by quotation from the 
Psalms, that when Christ " ascended on high 
He led captivity captive, and gave gifts unto 
men"; and in a parenthesis having declared 
that His ascension followed His descension, and 
was an ascension to the place of supreme au- 

THE MINISTRY 29 

thority, for the purpose of filling all things; — 
the Apostle proceeded to speak of the gifts He 
bestows, and to declare their purpose. Let us 
first notice the purpose. It is stated in the 
twelfth verse; " For the perfecting of the saints 
unto the work of ministering, unto the building 
up of the Body of Christ." Thus the gifts be- 
stowed were in order to perfect the saints, in 
order that they — the saints — might fulfill the 
work of ministering. In that is included both 
the ministry of tables and of the Word, in so 
far as these are necessary to the buildmg up of 
the body of Christ; and necessarily also that 
larger ministry which is the special vocation of 
the Church both here and in the ages to 
come. 

It is of vital importance that we recognize 
that the full ministry of the Church can only be 
fulfilled by the whole Church, as that Church 
consists in the unity of Christ with His mem- 
bers. Nevertheless in order that the Church 
may fulfill that ministry, there is a ministry 
within her organic life, which is created by gifts 
which the Head bestows by the Spirit, to quote 
from another of Paul's letters, '' dividing to 
each one severally even as He will." 

These gifts are those of Apostles, Prophets, 

30 THE MINISTRY 

Evangelists, and Pastors and Teachers. These 
are all in the Ministry of the Word. 

When we come to consider more fully the 
primitive Ideal these will be dealt with more 
particularly. For the present study a general 
survey of the ground will be sufftcient. The 
words themselves are suggestive, and may well 
be examined quite simply. The word Apostle 
is usually said to mean one who is sent. As a 
matter of fact its first meaning is that of being 
set apart. This we shall consider more particu- 
larly later. The word, as it was commonly 
used, referred to a delegate, an ambassador. 
Luke tells us that our Lord definitely selected 
the name for the Twelve, when He selected 
them. The word Prophet means a fore-teller, 
only we must bear in mind that the prefix fore 
has the sense of " in front of," and refers to 
place as well as time. The word Evangelist 
simply means one who tells good news. The 
final gift is indicated by the use of two words. 
Shepherd and Teacher, thus signifying a double 
function; the first in the realm of life, oversight, 
and sustenance; the second in the realm of 
knowledge, that of making known. 

Such are the gifts, and they are all bestowed 
by the Head of the Church according to the 

THE MINISTRY 31 

good pleasure of His wisdom. The exercise of 
these gifts may now be described with equal 
brevity, and so the subject be reserved for 
fuller treatment. 

The Apostle deals with the whole body of 
Truth. He has to state it, to systematize it, to 
make it available to the saints, in order to their 
guidance and sustenance. 

The Prophet has to make the light of Truth 
shine in front of men. He is a man of Light 
and of Law. 

The Evangelist has to apply the aspects of 
Truth which inspire hope. He declares the 
facts of the Evangel. He is a man of Life and 
Love. 

The Pastor and Teacher receives the obedi- 
ent, shepherds and instructs them in all the 
things of their life and service. 

It is quite evident that these were separate 
gifts, but those receiving them were all called 
to Ministry, and once again the word must in 
each case be interpreted by the values which we 
discussed at the beginning. 

A question arises as to whether these various 
gifts are ever merged in the experience of one 
man. We must not dogmatize, but personally 
I think they rarely are. They are sometimes 

32 THE MINISTRY 

changed in the course of a Hfe-work. The busi- 
ness of every man is to define his gift, and then 
to make full proof of his ministry in its use. 
When this is done, the gifts are never in conflict, 
but make up a perfect cooperation of service. 

Thus then it is seen that the fundamental con- 
ception of ministry v^ithin the Christian Church 
is that of service rendered in obedience to au- 
thority. This is equally true of the ministry of 
the v^hole Church, the ministry of Tables, and 
the ministry of the Word. Ministry is made 
possible by the bestowment of gifts by the One 
under Whose authority it is carried out. 

Ministers then in every case, and so in that 
of the preaching of the Word, are servants of 
Christ. They owe to Him absolute and uncon- 
ditioned allegiance. Therefore they are serv- 
ants to none other, in the sense of submission 
to authority. They become servants of all, in 
the sense of doing their v^ork on behalf of 
others. This is involved in the fact that they 
are the servants of Christ, Who said of Himself; 
" The Son of man came not to be ministered 
unto, but to minister, and to give His life a ran- 
som for many." They take their orders only 
from Him, but those orders are ever such as 
compel them to serve the highest interests of 

THE MINISTRY 33 

others, while emptying themselves in the sacred 
work. 

The conception of ministry then is full of 
heavenly dignity, but it is ever the dignity of 
self-emptying, and never that of self-aggrandize- 
ment. The minister of Christ is careless as to 
the opinion of all save his Lord, but he is full of 
care for the welfare of all those loved of his 
Lord. 

In the secret place of his fellowship with his 
Lord, he will ever submit himself with all lowli- 
ness of mind, loyalty of heart, and submissive- 
ness of will, in order that he may discover 
exactly what he is to say, where he is to go, 
and what he is to do. Then, as he passes out to 
obey those behests of his Master, he will do so 
without fear or faltering, in a consciousness of 
complete authority, and in the very spirit and 
behavior of that gracious and unfathomable 
love, which is the inspiration of the authority 
under which he serves. 

B 

THE WORD 

WE now come to the consideration of 
the second of the fundamental con- 
ceptions as it is suggested by the 
term " The Word." Here we are at once con- 
scious of the necessity for the most careful atten- 
tion. This term, '' The Word of God," is in com- 
mon use today. Sometimes it is employed with 
evident spiritual discernment; often I fear it 
must be said with great carelessness; and for 
the most part, even by devout souls, with scant 
knowledge. We constantly hear the Bible 
spoken of as the Word of God. Let me at once 
say that I am not for a moment suggesting that 
this is an improper designation, but I am sure 
that the significance of the term is not under- 
stood by many who thus employ it Ask them 
in what sense the Bible is the Word of God, or 
how it happens that it is the Word of God, or 
what they mean when they call it the Word of 

34 

THE WORD 35 

God; and their answers, constantly devout in 
intention, are, alas, often lamentably ignorant 
in statement. We at once assume that our 
phrase, " The Word," is a satisfactory abbrevia- 
tion of this larger phrase, " The Word of God." 
It undoubtedly v^^as so in the instance which we 
have considered. When the Apostles declared 
that they would give themselves to the ministry 
of the Word, they referred to the Word of God. 
What then, we inquire, is the Biblical interpre- 
tation of the phrase? For answer to that in- 
quiry we shall first glance at the general Biblical 
use of the term, and then examine one out- 
standing passage of interpretation. 

In the Old Testament the term which is the 
equivalent of Logos in the New, is Ddhdr. A 
glance at a Hebrew Lexicon will show the per- 
sistence of this term in the Scriptures of the 
Hebrew people. The word means quite simply 
a matter as spoken of; not the matter only, not 
the speaking alone, but the truth as uttered. 
We shall see presently how near akin is the 
idea of the word to the simple meaning of the 
Greek word Lxfgos. This word Ddbdr occurs 
constantly in connection with the name of God, 
and so we find the perpetually recurring for- 
mula, " the Word of the Lord." The claim of the 

36 THE WORD 

prophets to authority was persistently based on 
the declaration, " the Word of the Lord came." 
To these Hebrew thinkers that which they so 
described was Wisdom. Their philosophies did 
not begin by the asking of a question, but by 
the affirmation of God, and of His essential Wis- 
dom. The Word of the Lord to them was that 
Wisdom, as He uttered it, or made it known. 

When we turn to the New Testament we find 
that every writer uses the term Ldgos in some 
form. It was especially the term of three of 
them, namely Luke, Paul, and John. It is at 
least interesting to observe in passing that Luke 
employed it seventy-four times, Paul fifty-six, 
and John forty-three. That I recognize is a 
very mechanical statement, but it has its value. 
Their use shows that the intention of the word 
is an almost exact equivalent of that of the 
Hebrew Ddhdr; a matter, or truth, as uttered. 
The outstanding passage of interpretation to 
which I refer is of course that of the prologue to 
the Gospel according to John, and to that we 
shall return immediately. 

Let us tarry for a few moments, at least, with 
the term itself. In this connection it is inter- 
esting to observe certain facts about the three 
writers to whom we have referred. Luke was 

THE WORD 37 

himself a Greek, and undoubtedly influenced by 
the methods of Greek thought. Paul was a 
Hebrew, but educated Hellenistically. John 
was in my judgment evidently profoundly in- 
fluenced, ere he wrote his Gospel by Philo. All 
of them were perfectly familiar with the term as 
then employed. 

In the early Greek philosophies the term 
Logds stood for the rational principle of the 
universe, the word meaning an expression of 
thought, and the thought so expressed; never 
the one without the other. Philo definitely 
used the term as referring to God's revelation of 
Himself. The distinction between Philo and 
John was that Philo never thought or spoke of 
it as " made flesh." John used it in exactly the 
same way as Philo, always including that deep- 
est conception, that the Word was not only the 
method of revelation, but also the matter re- 
vealed; but his central declaration was that 
" The Word was made flesh." In stating it, 
however, he never detracted in any way from 
the values of the eternal and spiritual concep- 
tion. In other words, he did not qualify Christ 
by Philo, but rather fulfilled Philo by Christ. 

Now let us proceed to consider as far as we 
are able, the full content of the phrase, " The 

38 THE WORD 

Word," to the ministry of which these men gave 
themselves. This we will do by glancing at 
John's passage; and by a statement based upon 
the BibUcal conceptions. 

The scope of these Lectures does not neces- 
sitate more than a glance at John's prologue. 
A matter of supreme importance however is, 
that the mind should be kept upon the per- 
sistence of the thought of " the Word " through- 
out that prologue. The thought ascends from 
the abstract idea to that of personality. For 
us, all the values are resident in the Person. 
That Person is seen in different relationships, 
but the identity does not change. He is vari- 
ously " the Word," " the only begotten from 
the Father," "Jesus Christ," " the only begotten 
Son "; but these descriptions apply to the same 
supreme matter, or to the same Person. In 
the course of the prologue, the Word is revealed 
in cosmic relationships; in relation to God; in 
relation to the whole creation; in relation to the 
processes of redemption; in relation to in- 
dividual souls. But throughout, the Word is a 
Person; and the Person is the Word. The 
Person Who is the Word is seen in two princi- 
pal relations, which may be described as eternal 
and temporal. This may best be shown by 

THE WORD 39 

bringing together verses one and fourteen, and 
setting the three declarations of the one over 
against the three of the other; 

"In the beginning was the "The Word became flesh; 

Word." 
" The Word was with God." " Dwelt among us." 
" The Word was God." " Full of grace and truth." 

Thus the Word, according to John, is funda- 
mental and eternal Grace and Truth, for ever 
with God, and very God; but revealed in human 
nature, and so resident among the sons of men 
for their illumination and salvation. 

This is the exhaustive statement of the ex- 
haustless fact, to the service of which all those 
are devoted who are in " the Ministry of the 
Word." It is necessary however that we should 
seek some more detailed explanation of the con- 
ception, if we are to fulfill that ministry, and 
therefore we shall attempt to make a statement, 
which will carry us no farther; but may help us 
to a working understanding of the most glori- 
ous truth. 

When we speak of the Word then, we employ 
an inclusive term, which has a fourfold value. 
I will state the four aspects, and then briefly 
consider each in separation. 

40 THE WORD 

The Word is Grace and Truth, essentially, 
absolutely; and in their relation to all things. 

The Word is that Expression of Grace and 
Truth, which makes them comprehensible. 

The Word is the Record of the Expression 
of Grace and Truth; which Record is at once 
the germ and norm of interpretation. 

The Word is the Interpretation of the Record 
of the Expression of Grace and Truth, as they, 
through it, progressively unfold their meanings, 
and urge their claims. 

This brief summary will at once help us to 
recognize the spacious glory of that, to the 
service of which, we are called. As a summary 
it is bare and cold, and that almost necessarily. 
All the manifold colors of the infinite glory 
of the Eternal God are merged in the phrase 
The Word of God. Who then can hope to be 
successful in definition? Nevertheless the 
merging of those colors is Light, and Light 
finally reveals all things except itself. In light, 
I can look at everything except light. If any- 
one doubts the accuracy of that statement, let 
him look at the world in the light of the sun, 
and then endeavor to look at the sun. The 
only way of seeing it, is through a glass dark- 
ened. Our summary is of the nature of that 

THE WORD 41 

darkened glass. If it helps to a conception of 
the glory of the Word of God, it will serve our 
purpose. 

The Word is Grace and Truth essentially. 
This is the sense in which the expression is 
used in the first sentences in the prologue of 
John. " In the beginning was the Word, and 
the Word was with God, and the Word was 
God." The reference is to the fact in its 
entirety, to Grace and Truth in a unity which 
is complete in itself. In that sense the Word 
is the sum total of Wisdom. In its inclusive 
potentiality it is all strength, that is the Truth 
of it; and all beauty, that is the Grace of it. 
That moreover is the full glory of the Father. 
Of the Person, John said; "We beheld His 
glory, glory as of an only begotten from a 
father, full of grace and truth." The reference 
in the exposition which follows is to the rela- 
tion of this eternal fact to phenomena. Phe- 
nomena are things of sight, things that appear, 
as Noumena are things of the mind. This was 
the thought of the writer of the letter to the 
Hebrews in the words: " What is seen hath 
not been made out of things which do appear." 
In other words, phenomena are the result and 
demonstration, not of phenomena, but of 

42 THE WORD 

noumena; not of things which do appear, but 
of things not seen. " The ages " — which ap- 
pear — " have been fashioned by the Word of 
God " — which essentially is of the mind. The 
Word of God therefore is the reason or meaning 
of things. There is nothing unrelated thereto. 
Everything is tested by it; and is known as 
true or false, good or bad, beautiful or ugly, 
wise or ignorant, by that abiding and unchange- 
able standard. That is the ultimate definition 
of the Word of God, and every other phase of 
meaning is related to it, and so gathers force 
and value from it. 

In the second place, the Word of God is the 
expression of Grace and Truth. That is the 
sense in which the term is used in the second 
great statement in the prologue of John; " The 
Word became flesh…and dwelt among 
us…full of grace and truth "; and also 
in the phrase employed by Luke in his prologue, 
" eye-witnesses and ministers of the Word." 
That is the sense of the declarations with which 
the letter to the Hebrews opens, where the term 
does not occur, but where the thought is pres- 
ent, " God…hath…spoken unto 
us in His Son." The idea is that of giving such 
form to the eternal facts as will bring them 

THE WORD 43 

within the compass of finite intelligence. In 
God they are infinite, and so they can only be 
known to God. If they are to be known to men 
they must be expressed. According to Biblical 
conceptions, this work of finding the form of 
expression is always that of the Holy Spirit. 
One of the most remarkable and illuminative 
passages in the Bible on that subject is found 
in Paul's first letter to the Corinthians (2:10, 
11); " Unto us God revealed them through the 
Spirit, for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, 
the deep things of God.…The things of 
God none knoweth save the Spirit of God." 
Whenever then the Word is to be expressed, it 
must be through the instrumentality of the 
Spirit. 

In the opening sentences of the letter to the 
Hebrews, already referred to, the two methods 
by which the Word has found expression 
through this instrumentality of the Spirit are 
declared. In the past, God spoke to the fathers 
in the prophets, by divers portions and in divers 
manners. That is a most inclusive reference. 
Every aspect of truth made known, every gleam 
of grace outshining, all portions of the essential 
and eternal whole of the Word, came as God 
spoke. This He did in many manners; some- 

44 THE WORD 

times by direct and mystic communication with 
the soul; sometimes by clear and unmistakable 
interpretation of the events in the midst of 
which men lived; sometimes by lifting the soul 
into a realm of high exaltation, in which, ap- 
parently out of its own consciousness, it uttered 
songs of revealing and amazing beauty. By 
these and many other methods, the Spirit gave 
form and expression to the eternal Word as 
men were able to bear it. 

It should be borne in mind that this method 
was not confined to the Hebrew people, al- 
though in them it had its great center and most 
direct glory. There are many gleams of Grace 
and Truth in pagan Hterature. We do not need 
to turn to them however, for there is nothing in 
them not to be found in the literature which, as 
we shall presently ?ee, God created in a peculiar 
way, not for the Hebrew people only, but for 
humanity. 

The second part of the opening passage of 
the Hebrew letter tells of the central and final 
method by which the Word is expressed; 
" God…hath…spoken unto us in 
His Son.'* That is but another way of ex- 
pressing the fact which John expressed in the 
words, " The Word was made flesh." By in- 

THE WORD 45 

carnation, the Word found its inclusive and 
perfect expression for man. In the Being of 
Jesus, through His Person, through His speech, 
and finally through the exodus He accom- 
pHshed— by the Cross, the resurrection, and 
the ascension— all of Grace and Truth which 
man needs to know, or can know, found full and 
final expression. 

In relation to that, it is well at once to 
say that the expression was far more wonderful 
than man has yet discovered. His understand- 
ing of it is gradual and progressive; and hence 
arises the necessity for the other phases of the 
Word to which we shall presently refer. Sufftce 
it now for us to recognize the fact that the 
Word of God incarnate includes all the divers 
portions of the past; all the much more, which 
we have already apprehended; and still very 
much more, which we have yet to apprehend. 
Indeed, in a mystery far transcending our pow- 
ers of explanation, so complete is the expression 
of the eternal Word in the Son of God, that 
Paul could only express his sense of it by in- 
clusively declaring; "In Him dwelleth all the 
fullness of the Godhead corporeally." 

Thirdly then, the Word is the record of the 
expression of Grace and Truth. In order that 

46 THE WORD 

men might know and profit by the Speech of 
God, whether in the divers portions and man- 
ners of the past, or in the Son, it was necessary 
that the expressions should be preserved in such 
form that they might be at the disposal of men 
for all time. This was accomplished in the 
sacred Scriptures. In the second letter of 
Peter, we have a statement which reveals, so 
far as it is possible, the method by which these 
writings were produced (1:21); " Men spake 
from God, being borne along by the Holy 
Spirit." In that statement we discover the 
natural and supernatural elements. Men spake 
from God. That is natural in the highest sense 
of the word. As they spake, in their own lan- 
guages, in conformity with their own mental 
powers, influenced by their own surroundings, 
so also they wrote. But they were borne along 
by the Holy Spirit. The figure is that of a 
vessel with all sails stretched to the winds, and 
carried out beyond all the limitations which 
hold it, apart from that action of the wind, into 
the deeps. So these men, speaking and writing 
with all the simplicity of a perfect naturalness, 
were supernaturally guided into the most pro- 
found deeps; being thus inspired to say and 
write what should be said and written, and 

THE WORD 47 

equally to omit the things which should be 
omitted. The result of this method, at once 
human and Divine, we have in our Bible. The 
Old Testament is the inspired literature of need, 
inquiry, hope; while the New is that of supply, 
response, possession. To deal with human 
need the Old Testament is necessary. To deal 
with God's answer the New is essential. 

The value of this phase of the Word is that 
in these records of the expressions of the eternal 
Word of Grace and Truth, we have at once the 
germ and the norm of all revelation. We have 
the germ, waiting for interpretation, develop- 
ment, and persistent and progressive applica- 
tion. But we have the norm also, by which 
we test our speculations, theories, investiga- 
tions. This is of central importance in the 
matter of our Christology. It is always peril- 
ous to attempt any other explanation of Him 
tha \ that which adheres closely to the records. 
By so doing we inevitably sooner or later des- 
troy Him, and proceed to the proclamation of 
a creature of our own futile speculations, rather 
than the Christ of God. 

But there is yet another phase of meaning 
in the term " the Word of God." It is that of 
the persistent and ever growing interpretation 

48 THE WORD 

of the records to which we have already inci- 
dentally referred. This also is of the Spirit of 
God, and as surely Divine and actual as any- 
thing with which we have already dealt. The 
Holy Spirit is ever available to those called to 
the ministry of the Word, in order to its ex- 
planation and application. The laws of the 
Spirit must be observed, and then He will 
definitely, immediately, and accurately, explain 
and interpret the writings. Thus the Word of 
God is still living and powerful. 

But more. Because the Word must ever be 
incarnate in order to the illumination and saving 
of men, and because the saints are called upon 
to be witnesses, living epistles, the Spirit 
energizes the will, and enables the life, and thus 
all who obey become revelations of Grace and 
Truth. 

This then is the Word, to the ministry of 
which we are called. To roughly summarize. 
The Word is eternal Grace and Truth; Grace 
and Truth expressed; the records of the ex- 
pression of Grace and Truth; and the living 
interpretation of the records of the expression 
of Grace and Truth. 

If this examination of the fundamental con- 
ception enshrined in the phrase, " The Word/* 

THE WORD 49 

be lacking in many ways, as it certainly is, it 
does, at least I submit, help us to realize some- 
thing of the vastness and glory of the service 
to which those are called who enter upon " the 
Ministry of the Word." 

Because the Word of God is the full and 
final wisdom, there can be nothing outside its 
sphere. The whole sum of things in God, and 
in His creation, are conditioned within that 
infinite wisdom. Because the Word of God is 
the expression of that Wisdom so that men 
may know it, it has something to say on every 
subject. 

The ministry of the Word then, is only 
limited by the instrument, and by the will of 
God. The final thing can never be uttered by 
any one man. The whole of the Truth can 
never be expressed in any human system of 
philosophy or theology. It is indeed, 

"A deep, where all our thoughts are drowned." 

Nevertheless, because the Word of God is 
an expression of that ultimate wisdom, those 
who are in its ministry have something intelli- 
gible to say. They are interpreters, and the 
things they are called upon to say will ever 
be such, that those to whom they speak will 

50 THE WORD 

apprehend their meaning; and in doing so, will 
be including far more than at the given moment 
they know, and thus be preparing accurately for 
that growth in knowledge which must ever be 
the experience of those who listen to the things 
of God. 

Thus I would fain leave on the mind the 
impression of the stupendous and overwhelm- 
ing greatness and grandeur of the work of 
" The Ministry of the Word." In that Word 
there is a simplicity so gracious, that children 
will receive its teaching with gladness; and a 
fullness so profound, that sages will ever feel 
their comparative folly in contemplation. For 
us the Word is found in Jesus. We look at 
Him. We listen to Him. We walk with Him. 
We talk with Him. It is all perfectly easy. 
He is of our humanity. But in all the processes, 
and growingly, the lights and glories of the 
eternal things are breaking through, and we are 
being led forward into ever more and more won- 
derful unveilings. 

To serve the Word is to fulfill the highest 
function of which man is capable. Let those 
called to its holy privilege halt in awe, worship 
in wonder, and go forward with glad confidence. 

II 

The Primitive Ideal 

THE WORD AS THE TRUTH OF THE 
APOSTLE 

WE now turn to a more detailed con- 
sideration of the work of the Min- 
istry of the Word as we find it 
revealed in the New Testament, in order that 
we may apprehend the primitive ideal. For 
the moment we resolutely ignore all modern 
conditions. To these we shall subsequently 
return; and we shall be able to deal with them 
the more intelligently in proportion as we have 
clearly seen these first things in the history of 
this ministry. 

From this point onward in our consideration, 
the term " the Word '* must be understood 
according to the interpretation already given. 
Specifically it always refers to one or other of 
the phases, and therefore involves all of them. 
Following the line suggested by the apostolic 
division of the work into four phases, we com- 
mence with that of the Apostle. 

In a previous Lecture we have defined the 
apostolic functions broadly in these words; 

53 

54 THE WORD AS THE 

The Apostle deals with the zvhole body of Truth, 
He has to state it, to systematize it, to make it 
available to the saints, in order to their guidance 
and sustenance. 

In that definition we have employed the 
present tense, because the need of true apos- 
toHc work of this kind is perpetual; and, as we 
shall see later, the apostolic gift is still be- 
stowed within the Christian Church. That we 
may be clear as to the nature and value of that 
gift, we now consider the New Testament 
teaching on the subject, dealing with; The 
Apostolic Gift; the Apostolic Function; and the 
Apostolic message or Truth. We shall en- 
deavour to come to the New Testament without 
prejudice, in order to discover its teaching. 
Therefore we shall be elementary in our 
method. 

Starting with the statement of Paul, ** He 
gave some apostles," we have to discover the 
nature of this gift. We will begin with the word 
itself; and then deal with its place in the New 
Testament. 

The word afiosfdlds is a noun derived from 
the verb apbstello. Divesting our minds of 
all the ideas which we usually associate with 
the word— which may be false or true— we 

TRUTH OF THE APOSTLE 55 

have to recognize that the fundamental con- 
ception is not that of sending, but of separa- 
tion. This is very strongly so; and this lends 
force and meaning to the idea of sending. The 
action which makes an apostle is that of separa- 
ting him from all other matters, in order that 
he may be devoted to one particular business; 
and that invariably, the business of the one who 
thus sets him apart. The ambassador who goes 
in the name of the king, to represent the king, 
and to transact the business of the king, is set 
apart to the work. This setting apart is the 
fundamental idea suggested by the word itself. 
In use however, the word always refers also 
to the actual carrying out of the purpose for 
which the separation has taken place. The 
action is always that of the definite sending of 
the one separated; so that the apostle is always 
the messenger, separated in order to the fulfill- 
ment of a mission, and the one who carries out 
the mission. In the simplest sense of the word 
then, an Apostle is one who is rigorously set 
apart, in order to go on an embassy on behalf 
of the One Who separates him. The apostolic 
gift in the Christian Church is that Divine be- 
stowment, which at once separates him who re- 
ceives it to the doing of a certain clearly defined 

56 THE WORD AS THE 

work; and perfectly equips him with all that is 
necessary for the doing thereof. 

The use of the word in the New Testament 
is in strict accordance with these simple and 
fundamental intentions. The verb with its 
ordinary sense of " to send " is always used 
with the idea of very definite authority in the 
sending, and so also in the going. It is at 
least an interesting fact that the first time we 
come across the verb in the New Testament 
is in the statement that Herod sent forth and 
slew all the male children that were in Bethle- 
hem. Here the fact of authority is clearly 
marked. The noun is employed almost invari- 
ably of the twelve disciples whom the Lord se- 
lected, separated, and sent. The exceptions are 
so few that we may name them. There are 
five in all, of which three are definite, and two 
are doubtful. The clear exceptions are; first, 
where the word is used of the Lord Himself 
(Hebrews 3:1); secondly, where in writing to the 
Philippians Paul spoke of Epaphroditus as your 
apostle (Philippians 2:25); and finally, where in the 
Apocalypse we read of false apostles (Revelation 2:
2). The doubtful exceptions are; first, where 
our Lord used the word generally, but where 
possibly He was still referring to the Twelve 

TRUTH OF THE APOSTLE 57 

(John 13:16); and, where Paul referred to 
" our brethren the apostles of the Churches," in 
which case he may have been thinking still of 
the Twelve (2 Corinthians 8:23). In every other 
case the noun is used of the Twelve. 

Let us now consider the use of the word in 
connection with the Twelve. Mark and Luke 
give a careful account of how the Lord defi- 
nitely selected twelve from among the number 
of His disciples for specific work. In this con- 
nection Luke tells us that He named them 
Apostles. This is of great value as revealing 
the fact that this name was not one which they 
chose for themselves; nor was it one given to 
them by outsiders. There can be no question 
that our Lord selected it with a full sense of its 
deepest meaning, and in order to define clearly 
the nature of the gift He bestowed upon them, 
and of the work that they would be called to do. 

In Mark's story of this choosing of the 
Twelve, he indicated the double nature of the 
appointment. They were appointed; first, to 
be with Him. This is the fundamental idea of 
separation. There were senses in which the 
rest of the disciples continued with Him; but 
in the case of the Twelve, there was a special 
separation from all other persons and business, 

58 THE WORD AS THE 

in order that in close association with Himself, 
they might be prepared for the specific work 
for which they were intended. They were ap- 
pointed also " that He might send them forth 
to preach." Here we find the verb apostellb 
involving the separation, and indicating the 
work which they had to do. 

Mark and Luke give the names of the Twelve 
in connection with their accounts of this elec- 
tion on the part of the Lord. Matthew, who 
does not give this account, records the names 
when he tells of their sending forth on their 
first mission. The three of them, Matthew, 
Mark, and Luke, in giving the story of their 
sending forth, make use of the verb apostello. 
In each case it is evident that their specific and 
central work was that of preaching. They were 
sent by the Lord to proclaim His word, to de- 
liver His message, to make known the Truth 
about Himself. Certain powers were conferred 
upon them, the exercise of which would serve 
as signs, giving emphasis to their message. 
These however were distinctly secondary in 
importance, their chief responsibility being that 
of the Word which they were to proclaim, the 
understanding of which in their own case was 
the result of their having been with Him. 

TRUTH OF THE APOSTLE 59 

After His resurrection from among the dead 
it was to these twelve He specially appeared in 
the upper room. Others were with them, on 
some occasions, and once at least He appeared 
to five hundred brethren. Luke in his second 
treatise, the Acts of the Apostles, lays special 
emphasis upon the fact that He gave command- 
ment to the Apostles. He also tells how they 
asked Him whether He would at that time re- 
store the Kingdom to Israel; and how He re- 
plied by a simple and yet inclusive definition of 
their responsibility. They were to be His wit- 
nesses in Jerusalem, in all Judaea and Samaria, 
and unto the uttermost part of the earth. This 
charge was in a particular and peculiar sense 
intended for the Apostles. While all believers 
are to be His witnesses, it was the duty of this 
apostolic band to state the Truth authorita- 
tively. Hence we presently see the growing 
company of the disciples continuing steadfastly 
in the Apostles' teaching; and when Paul wrote 
his letter to the Ephesians we find him referring 
to them as constituting, with the prophets, the 
foundation, of which Jesus Christ Himself is the 
chief Corner-stone. It is thus that the Church 
of Christ is not catholic only; it is apostolic also. 
As these Apostles formulated the Christian doc- 

6o THE WORD AS THE 

trine under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, 
they fulfilled the true function of their apostle- 
ship. In this sense these men have had no 
official successors. Indeed they had no power 
or authority to appoint to the office. One of 
their first mistakes after their Lord had de- 
parted from them as to bodily presence, was 
that of choosing Matthias, when already the 
Lord had separated a man named Saul to make 
up the number of the first Twelve. In another 
sense they have always had successors, but to 
that we shall come presently. 

So far we have only seen the idea as set forth 
in the history of the New Testament. We may 
now pass to a statement of the true apostolic 
function. What that function was in the case 
of the Twelve clearly emerges from that exami- 
nation. They were specially called for the clear 
enunciation of Truth concerning the Lord Him- 
self, and for the doing of this work they were 
specially prepared by their close association 
with Him. The principle upon which they pro- 
ceeded to the election of a successor shows that 
they appreciated the importance of this, though 
they narrowed the conception of how this asso- 
ciation was possible. Peter said; " Of the men 
therefore which have companied with us all the 

TRUTH OF THE APOSTLE 6i 

time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among 
us, beginning from the baptism of John, unto 
the day that He was received up from us, of 
these must one become a witness with us of His 
resurrection." The idea that an Apostle must 
have definite, first-hand knowledge of the Lord 
Jesus in order to witness concerning Him, was 
perfectly accurate. The mistake consisted in 
the narrow conception of the way in which that 
condition could be fulfilled. It was perfectly 
realized in the case of Saul of Tarsus by special 
revelation, notwithstanding the fact that he 
probably never saw his Master in the days of 
His flesh. All those called to apostleship were 
men who had direct, first-hand knowledge of 
the Lord, and who were thus prepared for the 
work of stating the Truth concerning Him. 

This particular apostolic function is suggested 
by a statement found in the early part of the 
Acts of the Apostles. Under the preaching of 
Peter on the day of Pentecost about three thou- 
sand souls were added to the Lord. Of these 
Luke says that " they continued steadfastly in 
the Apostles* teaching, and fellowship, in the 
J)reaking of bread, and the prayers." In these 
words we have an account of the fourfold safe- 
guard of the ^arly Church. That safeguard is 

62 THE WORD AS THE 

described by the use of four phrases, arranged 
m two couplets. *' In the Apostles' teaching, 
and fellowship; in the breaking of bread, and 
the prayers." 

Of these the first in order of statement was 
first also in importance, because it was funda- 
mental. It was that of the Apostles' teaching. 
The word didache here translated teaching, de- 
rived from didaskOy to teach, was used for in- 
struction, both as to the act and the subject. It 
was in that respect kin of the word logos, which 
as we said in our earlier studies meant the 
Word not only as an expression, but also as the 
truth expressed. There can be little doubt that 
in this particular passage the word had both 
meanings. These people continued steadfast 
in their attendance upon the actual teaching of 
the Apostles, and in their obedience to what 
they taught. The word occurs subsequently in 
the Book of the Acts. The Sadducean Sanhe- 
drim charged the Apostles with having filled 
Jerusalem with their teaching, in spite of the fact 
that they had been straitly charged to remain 
silent (Acts 5:28). At Paphos, the pro-consul, 
Sergius Paulus, ** believed, being astonished at 
the teaching of the Lord" (Acts 13:12). The 
men of Athens brought Paul to the Areopagus, 

TRUTH OF THE APOSTLE 63 

and asked to be told what the new teaching was, 
which was spoken by Paul (Acts 17:19). All 
these references point to the same conception 
of a body of doctrine, or a statement of truth, 
concerning the Lord Himself, which it was the 
work of the Apostle to declare. 

We may summarize our consideration of the 
function of the Apostle then by saying that he is 
a man chosen by Christ Himself; set apart to 
Christ, to be with Him for special knowledge of 
Him; sent by Christ, to deliver that very mes- 
sage of truth concerning Himself, which he has 
gained by this separation of comradeship and 
communion. 

This brings us to the last phase of this con- 
sideration, that namely which is concerned with 
the apostolic message, or truth. In writing to 
the Ephesians, and in connection with his dis- 
cussion of this subject of the ministry, Paul 
made use of a suggestive and revealing phrase, 
" As truth is in Jesus." In that phrase we have 
an inclusive description of the whole of apostolic 
teaching. Let us call to mind the statement in 
which the phrase occurs. Urging these Gentile 
believers to walk no longer as they had walked, 
he said; " Ye did not so learn Christ, if so be 
that ye heard Him, and were taught in Him, 

64 THE WORD AS THE 

even as truth is in Jesus.** That had been the 
nature of his apostoUc teaching, believing 
which, these people had entered into life. Let 
the phrase be pondered, and its inclusiveness 
and value will be discovered. Truth here stands 
for that which is essential and eternal; the ac- 
tual and the absolute truth. It is the word 
which our Lord employed when He said of 
Himself, " I am…the Truth *'; and that 
at once helps us to understand the full phrase, 
" As the truth is in Jesus." The last five words 
of the phrase constitute a sentence, which ex- 
actly describes the apostolic conviction, and re- 
veals the scope of their teaching. The truth is 
in Jesus. They had found that essential and 
eternal truth had its final expression in Jesus. 
Their teaching was the exposition of the truth 
so expressed. To them was given the gift of 
enabling them to state that truth in such form, 
as to be the guide of all believers in their growth 
" into Him Who is the Head, even Christ, from 
Whom all the body fitly framed and knit to- 
gether…maketh the increase of the body 
unto the building up of itself in love.'* 

We shall gain further important light on this 
subject as we consider how these first Apostles 
did their work. They first preached Jesus; that 

TRUTH OF THE APOSTLE 63 

is, they told the story concerning Him, as they 
knew it, of their own personal experience. 
Realizing that essential and eternal truth was 
expressed in Him, they presented Him to others 
as He had been presented to them. The whole 
method of apostolic declaration may be gath- 
ered from an examination of the first apostolic 
pronouncement, that of Peter on the day of 
Pentecost as it is recorded for us in the Book of 
the Acts (chap. ii.). He told the listening mul- 
titudes the simple yet inclusive story of Jesus; 
as a Man through Whom God wrought signs in 
His life, which showed Him to be approved of 
God; as One Who was delivered to death by the 
determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, 
and slain by the men of Israel, by the hand of 
men without law, that is Gentiles; as having 
been raised and exalted by God; and as having 
shed forth the Holy Spirit upon all flesh. That 
is to say that Peter preached or proclaimed 
Jesus, and in so doing proclaimed Truth, and so 
fulfilled his apostolic ministry. 

Thus the Truth of the Apostles was that of 
the Word of God, as it was in the beginning, 
and as it was spoken to men in Jesus. This was 
the first method and message of all the Apostles. 
In this first message, as in all subsequent ones 

66 THE WORD AS THE 

preserved for us, it is to be observed that these 
men employed the v^ritings of the Old Testa- 
ment in their preaching of truth as it is in Jesus. 
They did not interpret Him by these writings, 
but rather these writings by Him; so proving at 
once their true value and their limitation. 

As time passed on, they added writing to 
their preaching, and so under the guidance of 
the Spirit provided those new writings which 
complete the Old, as they give men for all time 
the truth concerning Jesus, and so embody the 
truth, " as the truth is in Jesus." Not all the 
Twelve wrote. Moreover some wrote who 
were not of the number of the Twelve. All the 
writings however were under apostolic influ- 
ence, and were produced in the fellowship of the 
Apostles. This we shall see as we proceed. 

Apostolic Truth then is found in our New 
Testament. It is the literature of Christ. 
There we hear Him, and are taught in Him, 
even as Truth is in Jesus. The subject from 
first to last is Jesus Christ the Word of God. 
Therefore this literature is in very deed the 
Word of God to us; and it is the apostolic 
Truth, which was once for all delivered by these 
Apostles to the Church. 

It is not the purpose of this Lecture to deal 

TRUTH OF THE APOSTLE 67 

with these writings in detail, but it will be of 
value to summarize their content. In the first 
four of them the subject is that of the Word of 
God, as He appeared in human history. Two 
of these, those dealing with the Kingly and 
Divine aspects of His Person, were written by 
Apostles, Matthew and John. The other two, 
those presenting Him in His saving and human 
aspects, were written by men under the influ- 
ence of Apostles, and in fellowship with them; 
Mark with Peter, and Luke with Paul. Thus 
the presentation of the Person is apostolic. 
Then follow two and twenty writings in which 
the Word of God is presented, as He is realized 
and proclaimed through His mystical Body the 
Church. Of these the first is a picture, full of 
life and color from the pen of an artist, Luke, 
who traveled and wrought in fellowship with 
the great Apostle Paul. In it, Christ the Word 
is seen, moving out towards the uttermost parts 
of the earth, through His Spirit-filled witnesses. 
Then follow twenty-one letters and pamphlets, 
which constitute a body of instruction for the 
Church. In the writing of these, three Apos- 
tles were employed, Paul, Peter, and John; and 
two, James and Jude, who were the close associ- 
ates of the apostolic band. The one anony- 

68 THE WORD AS THE 

mous pamphlet, namely the letter to the He- 
brews, is certainly apostolic in its teaching, and 
was probably Luke's reproduction of Paul's 
teaching. At least that is as well-founded a 
speculation as any other. Thus the presenta- 
tion of the Church is apostolic. The subject of 
the last writing is that of the Word of God, in 
His personal glory, in His relation to His 
Church, and in His governmental procedure, 
whereby He establishes the Kingdom of God on 
earth. This was written by the Apostle John. 
Thus the final writing is also apostolic. 

Thus then is revealed the apostolic message. 
It was, and is essentially, that of the Word; that 
is, the Whole of Truth as it was embodied and 
expressed in the Son of God, as the Son of man. 
In the apostolic writings we have that Truth 
stated, systematized, and applied. These writ- 
ings then constitute at once the germ and norm 
of all apostolic preaching. They are the germ, 
needing development and progressive applica- 
tion. They are the norm, by which all develop- 
ments and applications must be tested, lest they 
depart from the Truth. 

While the number of the foundation Apostles 
was completed, and in these writings we have 
the full body of apostolic doctrine, it is never- 

TRUTH OF THE APOSTLE 69 

thelcss true that the apostoHc gift is still needed 
and bestowed. It is needed wherever the Word 
is to be given to a people in a new tongue, or to 
meet new conditions. The work of translation, 
which is too often looked upon as being merely 
academic, is strictly apostolic. When we re- 
member the great translators, that will be con- 
ceded. The work of the true theologian is also 
distinctly apostolic. It is that of stating the 
eternal truth in the new terms of the new age; 
and that without destroying its essential charac- 
ter. For the doing of this work also, no merely 
academic equipment is sufficient. The gift of 
the Apostle is necessary. 

From this interpretation it will be seen that 
the apostolic is one phase only of The Ministry 
of the Word. There is a sense in which all 
Christian ministry is apostolic, whereas all 
Christian ministry is not necessarily prophetic, 
nor evangelistic, nor pastoral and didactic. All 
ministry of the Word is apostolic, because it is 
concerned with the Truth, which received apos- 
tolic interpretation under the guidance of the 
Spirit, and must always be tested by that inter- 
pretation. In this sense apostolic ministry is 
fundamental and continuous. There are proph- 
ets, evangelists, pastors and teachers, who have 

70 THE WORD AS THE 

not the apostolic gift, but all of them have to do 
with this apostolic teaching. It is the bond of 
union between them. The proportion in which 
this fact is realized, is the proportion in which 
any sense of conflicting interest in the exercise 
of this ministry, as between those of the differ- 
ent orders, is impossible. Each in his own 
order will recognize the complementary nature 
of all the orders, and there will be perfect co- 
operation. 

In this connection I may be permitted to say 
how out of place the word succession is, in ref- 
erence to the Christian ministry. There is no 
such thing as Apostolic succession, as there is 
no such thing as Prophetic, or Evangelistic, or 
Pastoral succession. The call to the ministry is 
personal and direct; and for the equipment of 
those called, gifts and grace are supplied not 
mediately, but immediately, by the Head of the 
Church, through the Holy Spirit. 

The historic continuity and unity of the 
Christian ministry is maintained by The Word 
of God, which liveth and abideth for ever. The 
gifts vary, and the secondary means by which 
they are received are more perhaps than we 
have recognized. They were bestowed in New 
Testament times by the laying on of hands, 

TRUTH OF THE APOSTLE 71 

sometimes by bishops, or presbyters, sometimes 
by the members of the Church; and so they still 
undoubtedly are, as bishops and Christian be- 
lievers act under the Lordship of Christ. In 
those days they were received without any lay- 
ing on of hands, and so they still undoubtedly 
are. 

That which mattered then, and that which 
matters yet, is the Truth of which the Apostles 
were, and are, the interpreters. The testing of 
Apostolic ministry therefore is that of the Truth 
itself. If one claiming apostolic gifts and func- 
tions denies the faith once for all delivered to 
the saints, his claim is disproved by that denial. 

Thus the sacredness of the work of Apostolic 
ministry of the Word is revealed. 

B 

THE WORD AS THE BURDEN OF THE 
PROPHET 

WE now turn to the second phase of the 
ministry of the Word referred to by 
the Apostle, that namely of the 
Prophet. We have already broadly defined the 
term Prophet as referring to one whose office it 
is; To make the light of Truth shine in front of men; 
he is a man of light and of lazu. 

The work of the Prophet in the Christian 
economy is always dependent upon that of the 
Apostle. In his first letter to the Corinthians, 
Paul explicitly stated this, when he wrote; 
" God hath set some in the Church, first apos- 
tles, secondly prophets, thirdly teachers " * 
(1 Corinthians 12:28). This does not mean that the 
Apostle occupies a higher rank than the Prophet 

*The reason for the omission of the Evangelist here 
probably is that the Apostle was dealing with the gifts of 
value within the Church, rather than with the one by which 
men are brought into the Church. Whereas the work of 
the Prophet has application beyond the Church, it also has 
values within, and so was included. 

72 

THE BURDEN OF THE PROPHET 73 

or Teacher. Such an idea of rank is wholly of 
this world, and has no place in Christian organ- 
ization. 

In considering this subject of the prophetic 
gift we must give particular attention to the 
idea as it is found in the New Testament. It 
is to say the least, an interesting and suggestive 
fact, that the word prophet is far more common 
there than the word apostle. I confess that this 
fact surprised me when I noticed it — but it is so. 

In the New Testament writings we find a 
group of words, all based upon one central idea. 
To understand the true nature of prophetic min- 
istry, we must discover that idea. In order to 
do so, we shall again come to these writings 
with an open mind, endeavoring to find the 
conception, apart from all foregone conclusions. 
We will follow the same method, considering; 
the Prophetic Gift; the Prophetic Function; and 
the Prophetic Burden. 

The central word of the group referred to is 
the word Prophet, employed by the Apostle 
in his statement, *' He gave…some proph- 
ets." Our word prophet is really a translit- 
eration of the Greek word prophetes, which also 
appears in the feminine form propketis^ ren- 
dered prophetess. This is a compound word, 

74 THE WORD AS THE 

made up of the prefix pro^ which means fore, in 
the sense of in front of, or before; and the verb 
phemiy to speak. This verb, v^hich Hterally 
means to show, or make known, is derived from 
phaino, to shine. 

This very elementary method of considera- 
tion gives us the simplest and the truest value 
of the word itself. According to it, the Prophet 
is one who makes Truth known to men in such 
a way that it arrests the attention. He is one 
through whose ministry the Truth shines forth 
upon men, so that they find themselves in its 
light. While the Apostle is chiefly concerned 
with the Truth in itself, the Prophet is con- 
cerned with its statement to men in such terms 
that it may make its proper appeal to them. 
The whole emphasis is on the Truth, as made 
known, as shining forth, as applied. While the 
Apostle is called to state the essential and eter- 
nal Truth, as it found expression in Jesus, the 
Prophet is supremely called to show the bearing 
of that Truth on temporal things. In prophetic 
ministry we find therefore what we may de- 
scribe, for lack of a better term, as the tenses of 
Truth. It deals with the past, as it makes his- 
tory the vehicle through which eternal prin- 
ciples have been revealed. It deals with the 

BURDEN OF THE PROPHET 75 

present, as it measures the things of today by 
eternal standards. It deals with the future, as 
it declares things to come, in order that the un- 
veilings may produce an immediate effect upon 
the conceptions and conduct of men. 

As we have said, this phase of ministry is con- 
stantly referred to in the New Testament. In 
addition to the words already cited, we find 
these cognate forms; prhpheteud, to prophesy; 
prdpheteiay a prophecy; and prophetikos^ pro- 
phetic. A study of all the passages in which 
these words are found makes it evident that the 
idea was taken over from the old economy, and 
from the writings of the Old Testament. To 
them, then, we may properly turn for an inter- 
pretation of the idea. 

The Hebrew word for prophet is derived 
from a verb which means to speak or sing by 
inspiration. By inspiration here, I mean super- 
naturally; the speech or the song resulting from 
some Divine influence operating through the 
speaker or singer. There is nothing in the 
word which suggests the method of inspiration, 
but it stands for such speech, whether it deals 
with past, present, or future, as results from a 
Divine action, whereby the speaker utters, not 
his own private interpretations of events or 

76 THE WORD AS THE 

problems, but the Word of the Lord concerning 
them. The whole conception of prophesying 
was that of proclaiming the thoughts of God; 
and therefore the Prophet was always the in- 
strument through whom God made known His 
will to men. 

The Old Testament conception moreover, 
was ever that of the practical and ethical value 
of prophecy. The Old Testament Prophets 
never spoke or wrote merely to satisfy curiosity, 
either in their historic records, in their direct 
messages, or in their foretelling of things to 
come. The purpose of their ministry was ever 
that of producing immediate results in the lives 
of those to whom their words were addressed. 

I pause to stress this fact, because a common 
use of the word shows how sadly it has been lost 
sight of. Constantly the word prophet is used 
as though it referred to one able to predict com- 
ing events, and prophecy is conceived of as con- 
sisting wholly of such predictions. Moreover 
altogether too often the study of the predictive 
elements in Biblical prophecies degenerates into 
a curiosity which is morbid, and often irrever- 
ent, a desire to know ** times and seasons," sim- 
ply for the satisfaction which such knowledge 
produces. 

BURDEN OF THE PROPHET 77 

Nothing can be more erroneous. That the 
predictive element existed in prophetic ministry 
in the Hebrew economy, no one denies. In- 
deed it was the element which most clearly set 
the seal of the supernatural upon that ministry. 
This is clearly seen in the Book of Isaiah, where 
the Prophet makes this fact of prediction the 
proof of Divine authority, as he challenges the 
false gods and prophets; ** Declare the things 
that are to come hereafter, that we may know 
that ye are gods.…Who hath declared it 
from the beginning that we may know? and be- 
fore time, that we may say, He is righteous? 
yea, there is none that declareth . . ." (Isa. 
41:23 and 26). Yet even here, and always, the 
purpose of prediction was that of producing im- 
mediate moral results, and not that of affording 
intellectual satisfaction. This element was only 
one however, and if we may measure its value 
by its amount, it was the least important. 
Prophecy was also the interpretation of history. 
That is why all the historic books of the Old 
Testament were included in the Division which 
they named "' The Prophets." Their historians 
were Prophets, because they ever set history in 
relation to the government of God, showing 
through it, how all disaster had resulted from 

78 THE WORD AS THE 

disobedience to the Law of God, and all success 
from conformity thereto. Prophecy was also 
the interpretation of the will of God to men im- 
mediately, the inspired utterance which made 
known to men what was at the very moment 
the Divine purpose and way. 

This complete conception of the prophetic 
office was taken over by the men of the new 
age. This fact must be borne in mind in any 
attempt to understand the gift of the Prophet. 
Prophecy is truth spoken, as the result of Divine 
inspiration, and with a view to producing Divine 
results in huma\n affairs. The work of the 
Prophet is that of making such truth known 
to men in ways which command attention. 

Let us now observe the idea as it is found in- 
the New Testament, dividing our examination 
into two parts; first the references prior to Pen- 
tecost; and secondly, those afterwards. In both 
cases we find that references are constantly 
made to the Old Testament prophets. There is 
a sense of course in which the writings which 
record the things before Pentecost are post- 
pentecostal. That is to say, that probably none 
of them was written before the coming of the 
Spirit. Hence we find the constant statement 
that the predictions of the Prophets of the old 

BURDEN OF THE PROPHET 79 

economy were fulfilled in the life and death and 
resurrection of Jesus. All such references are 
of great value, not only as they reveal the rela- 
tionship between the Hebrew and Christian 
economies, but also as they serve to show the 
true nature of Hebrew prophecy. In our ex- 
amination I propose to confine myself to those 
references which deal with the prophetic gift 
within the Christian age. 

The references to the ministry of the Prophet 
within the Christian era in the Gospels are few, 
but they are suggestive. Matthew gives us a 
fuller account than any of the other Evangelists 
of the ordination of the Twelve as they were 
sent forth on their first mission (Matthew 9:35- 
10:42). Here we find our Lord's charge to 
them. It is quite evident that as He spoke to 
them He was looking on to all the processes of 
the age which He was then inaugurating. The 
first part of the charge had to do with their im- 
mediate mission (Matthew 10:5-15). The second 
part covered the period from His ascension to 
the destruction of Jerusalem (10:16-23). The 
final part dealt with the whole period thence, to 
the consummation of the age (10:24-42). In 
the closing sentences of that final section He 
said, " He that receiveth a Prophet in the name 

8o THE WORD AS THE 

of a prophet, shall receive a Prophet's reward " 
(ver. 41). 

The only value of these v^^ords for the purpose 
of our present study is, that they show that our 
Lord deliberately indicated His adoption of the 
prophetic method of ministry in connection with 
the complete ministry of witness, to which His 
people were to be sent forth. At the close of 
His ministry He uttered the final doom of the 
city of Jerusalem. This was preceded by His 
woes against the rulers, at the close of which He 
said, " Behold I send unto you Prophets, and 
wise men, and scribes; some of them shall ye 
kill and crucify; and some of them shall ye 
scourge in your synagogues, and persecute from 
city to city " (Matt, 23:34). Here His refer- 
ence undoubtedly was to the ministry of His 
witnesses which would follow His departure, 
and again we have evidence of His recognition 
of the prophetic method. He employed the 
term in reference to His own ministry when He 
said, " A Prophet is not without honor, save in 
his own country, and in his own house " (Matt, 
13:57); and the people spoke of Him as a 
Prophet. These are the references to a Chris- 
tian ministry of prophecy in the Gospels. They 
are few, but they suffice to show that it was 

BURDEN OF THE PROPHET 8i 

within the intention of the Lord Himself that 
there should be such a phase of ministry. 
When we turn to the more strictly post-pente- 
costal times, we find a much more frequent oc- 
currence of the idea. 

In the Acts the prophetic character of pente- 
costal preaching emerges in the first apostolic 
declaration. When Peter interpreted the signs 
of the Spirit to the inquiring multitudes, he 
quoted the prophecy of Joel, declaring that it 
found its fulfillment on that day. According to 
that foretelling of the Hebrew Prophet, one of 
the great results of the outpouring of the Spirit 
would be that of the new age of prophecy which 
would then begin (Acts 2:17, 18, 19). When, 
centuries before, the news was brought to 
Moses that Eldad and Medad were prophesy- 
ing, he had exclaimed; " Would God that all the 
Lord's people were Prophets" (Numbers 11:29). 
From the hour when the great lawgiver 
breathed the wish, we pass to the days when 
Joel declared it would be realized, and so on to 
Pentecost when it was fulfilled. 

While it is true that the Spirit equips all be- 
lievers for prophetic witness, it is also true that 
there are those who have a special gift, and this 
is seen in the Acts. When the new movement 

82 THE WORD AS THE 

was about to begin from Antioch, Prophets 
went down there from Jerusalem, and one of 
them, Agabus, uttered the predictive word con- 
cerning the great famine (Acts 11:27, 28). 
This man appears again in the account of Paul's 
stay at Csesarea, and again his message was 
predictive (Acts 21:10, 11). In the Church at 
Antioch Prophets were found (Acts 13:1). 
Judas and Silas are distinctly named as 
Prophets (Acts 15:32). At Ephesus the gift 
of the Holy Spirit was signalized by the exercise 
of prophetic ministry (Acts 19:6). The four 
daughters of Philip the evangelist prophesied 
(Acts 21:9). 

In his first Corinthian letter Paul gave ex- 
plicit instructions concerning the exercise of the 
prophetic gift. 

All this is of value as it shows that the par- 
ticular method of the Prophet in the ministry 
of the Word obtained in the earliest days of the 
Christian economy, and that it was one of the 
gifts bestowed within the Church, by the Head 
of the Church, through the Spirit. 

The prophetic function emerges clearly into 
view in our consideration of the gift itself. In 
the second letter of Peter however, we have a 
statement which is of the utmost value in order 

BURDEN OF THE PROPHET 83 

to an accurate apprehension of the pecuHar na- 
ture of prophesying. He was dealing with the 
experience on the Holy Mount, and especially 
with the influence which the voice, those who 
were present then heard, had upon them with 
regard to the prophecies of the past. The pas- 
sage is so important that we quote it in full. 
" We have the word of prophecy made more 
sure; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, 
as unto a lamp shining in a dark place, until the 
day dawn, and the day-star arise in your hearts; 
knowing this first, that no prophecy of Scripture 
is of private interpretation. For no prophecy 
ever came by the will of man; but men spake 
from God, being moved by the Holy Ghost " 
(2 Peter 1:19-21). 

Through the testimony of the voice of the 
Holy Mount to the Son of God, these men came 
to a new understanding of the nature of the 
prophetic writings, with which they had been 
familiar from childhood. These writings were, 
by this experience, made more sure to them. 
With that aspect of Peter's message we are not 
now interested, save in so far as it throws light 
upon the prophetic function. We have already 
seen that the idea in the New Testament is 
identical with that in the Old. All that is here 

84 THE WORD AS THE 

said concerning the prophecies of the past is 
equally true concerning prophetic ministry to- 
day. 

The function of prophecy then, is that of 
speaking the Word of God, that Word being 
received from God by the ministry of the Holy 
Spirit. The Prophet is not one who observes 
his age and gives his own interpretation of it. 
He is one who is carried along by the Spirit 
into a place of vision and understanding, above 
and beyond his age, from which he sees it as 
God sees it, and in which he receives from God 
the very message the age needs to hear. Such 
messages constitute light in dark places, to 
which men do well that they take heed. 

Prophets then are men who are sure, because 
they are Spirit-taught; and they speak therefore 
with the note of absolute authority. The eflFect 
of their speaking may be that of condemnation, 
or of direction, or of inspiration. It is always 
practical, ethical, spiritual. All this will be- 
come yet clearer as we turn to the consideration 
of the Burden of the Prophet. 

The word burden, in relation to prophetic min- 
istry, is strictly an Old Testament word, and it 
has no exact equivalent in the New. Neverthe- 
less we employ it, and are justified in doing so, 

BURDEN OF THE PROPHET 85 

because, as we have seen, the whole conception 
of prophetic ministry is carried over from the 
Old Testament into the New. We will go back 
then to the Old in order to discover the meaning 
and use of the word there. The Hebrew word 
(Massd) literally means a burden or a load in 
our ordinary every-day sense. It is used of the 
weights carried by beasts, and of responsibilities 
resting upon men. The Prophets themselves 
appropriated the word, and made it the peculiar 
vehicle by which they expressed their own con- 
ception of the nature of their messages. In 
their use of it, we find it stood for the truth 
made known to them by God; for the desire 
which they experienced to utter the truth; and 
for the message as they delivered it. We now 
employ the word strictly in this sense. 

The Burden of the New Testament Prophet, 
like that of the Old, is first the Truth made 
known by God in order that it may be declared 
to men. Such truth, so made known to the 
Prophet, becomes a burden of desire, compel- 
ling him to utter it. The message which, under 
such constraint, is proclaimed to men is the 
Word of the Lord. 

What then is the Burden of the New Testa- 
ment Prophet? We may find a practically com- 

86 THE WORD AS THE 

plete answer to that inquiry in the words of 
Peter in the house of CorneUus. At the dose 
of the address delivered when he perceived that 
the Gospel was for the Gentile as well as the 
Jew, he said, " To Him bear all the Prophets 
witness." While these words are usually em- 
ployed as though they referred to the prophe- 
cies of the past; and while such interpretation 
of them is undoubtedly correct as far as it goes; 
it is equally certain that they describe, and with 
even more accuracy, the burden of Christian 
prophesying. If the whole of that brief but 
pregnant address be read, this will be the more 
readily acknowledged. After telling the story 
of Jesus in a very few words, he declared that 
God had charged them '' to preach unto the 
people that this is He Which is ordained of God 
to be the Judge of quick and dead.'* To Him 
then, all the Prophets give witness. They de- 
clare His absolute sovereignty over all human 
souls, whether quick or dead. Such declara- 
tion ever involves the illustration of that sov- 
ereignty; interpretation of its reasons, its 
methods, its purposes; and application of the 
one central fact to the circumstances in the 
midst of which the Prophet is called to exercise 
his ministry. 

BURDEN OF THE PROPHET 87 

/■ 

Some further light may be obtained from the 
passage in Peter's second letter to which we 
have already referred. Referring to the ex- 
perience of the Holy Mount, he said; " We did 
not follow cunningly devised fables when we 
made known unto you the power and coming * 
of our Lord Jesus Christ *' (2 Peter 1:16). The 
positive note in that statement is full of light. 
The whole burden of prophetic ministry is ex- 
pressed in the words " the power and coming 
of our Lord Jesus Christ." They cover the 
whole fact of His relation to the world. In the 
next two sections of this letter he dealt with the 
perils threatening these truths. First the perils 
threatening the truth of the Power (chap. ii.). 
Carefully observe that this peril consisted in 
false prophets and teachers denying the Master. 
Then the peril threatening the truth of the 
Coming (chap. iii.). Again observe that this 
peril consisted in the mocking of those who dis- 
believed the predictions of the holy Prophets 
and the teaching of the Apostles. True proph- 
ecy then is that which proclaims His Power and 
His Coming; and such prophecy is ever of the 
nature of a lamp shining in a dark place. 

Returning for a moment to a more abstract 
matter, it ''^ interesting to turn to a passage 

88 THE WORD AS THE 

in Jeremiah, in which terrible things are written 
against false prophets (33:9-40). Towards 
the close of that passage the whole question of 
the use and abuse of the word burden is dis- 
cussed. In the course of the discussion, the 
human questions to which the prophetic bur- 
den is the true answer are given. They 
are these; ** What hath the Lord answered?'* 
"What hath the Lord spoken?" A real 
prophetic burden then is the answer to 
those questions; and the Prophet is the man 
who answers them. In the light of that state- 
ment we turn to the letter to the Hebrews; 
" God having of old time spoken unto the fa- 
thers in the Prophets by divers portions, and in 
divers manners, hath at the end of these days 
spoken unto us in His Son '* (Hebrews 1:1, 2). The 
Son then is the One Prophet of God, and all 
Prophets in the Christian age are such as give 
the answer of His truth to humanity as it in- 
quires, " What hath the Lord spoken? ** 

Thus then is clearly revealed the Burden of 
the Christian Prophet. It is that of the Word 
of God, embodied in the Word incarnate, the 
Son in Whom God has spoken to all men and all 
ages, everything that it is necessary that they 
should know in order to the realization of the 

BURDEN OF THE PROPHET 89 

purpose of God, which is also that of the true 
and glorious destiny of humanity. 

This Word the Prophet is to declare, to apply, 
to insist on. His ministry is not that of the 
Apostle, not that of the Evangelist, nor that of 
the Pastor and Teacher. As we have seen, the 
work of the Apostle is ever that of giving all his 
attention to the Truth itself. The Prophet 
must receive the Truth from the Apostle. His 
prophesying in that sense must be apostolic. 
As we shall see, the work of the Evangelist is 
that of perpetually proclaiming the first things 
of the Truth; while that of the Pastor and 
Teacher is that of instructing the members of 
the Church in Truth, that they may grow 
thereby. The Prophet is rather the man who 
addresses his age, declaring to it the crown 
rights of the Lord, and showing how they affect 
all the affairs of men. It is a great ministry, 
full of infinite variety, charged with solemn re- 
sponsibility, and yielding results which can 
never be expressed in human statistics. The 
voice of the Prophet will often be silenced by 
the clamor of opposition, but his word will 
abide, and being the Word of God, will never 
return to Him void. 

The gift has persisted throughout the 

90 THE WORD AS THE 

Christian era, and it is still needed. Whether 
they will hear or whether they will forbear, 
men must still be compelled to attend to the 
proclamation of the truth about themselves, and 
about life, which Truth is all contained in the 
Word of God, which found its complete utter- 
ance in His Son. 

That there have been, and still are those on 
whom this specific gift is bestowed will, I think, 
be readily conceded. Their preaching is ever 
characterized by national and social applica- 
tions, rather than by individual appeal. That 
i& not to say that it has no personal value. It 
certainly has, for the true Prophet never forgets 
that the nation consists of the People, and that 
the People, as a Commonwealth, is strong or 
weak in proportion as the individuals making 
up the whole are strong or weak. But it does 
mean that the Prophet is a man who sees clearly 
the whole movement of human life, and his mes- 
sage has to do with all human inter-relation- 
ships, and responsibilities, as these are condi- 
tioned within the Will of God. The Prophet 
therefore is not called upon to tarry with indi- 
viduals. That is the work more specifically of 
Evangelists and Pastors and Teachers. Neither 
is he called upon to systematize the Truth. 

BURDEN OF THE PROPHET 91 

That is the work of the Apostles. He, knowing 
this Truth, and reahzing the fact that men are 
only perfected as they fulfill the Divine ideal of 
society, speaks to them as a whole. He will talk 
to them of history, ignoring the accidental inci- 
dents, as he interprets the fundamental and es- 
sential things of Divine law and rule. He will 
speak to every present situation, not discussing 
it from the standpoint of human observation, 
but declaring the Divine thought and purpose. 
He will foretell the way of God with men in the 
days to come, so far as that is revealed in the 
Scriptures, carefully avoiding all personal spec- 
ulation as to details unrevealed. 

The ministry of Prophets is always needed, 
but especially so in days of upheaval and break- 
down in human affairs. Then, to men at their 
wits' end, he is called upon to proclaim the 
Word of the Lord, as it is found in the Son of 
God. By so doing he will give direction to 
men, following which, they will be able to build 
again the waste places, and realize all the possi- 
bilities of human society as they are known to 
God. 

THE WORD AS THE GOSPEL OF THE 
EVANGELIST 

THE third phase of the Ministry of the 
Word referred to by the Apostle is 
that of the EvangeHst. In dealing 
with the subject of the Ministry, generally, we 
thus defined his work; The Evangelist has to 
apply the aspects of Truth zvhich inspire hope. He 
declares the facts of the Evangel, He is a man of 
Life and Love. 

In turning to a more careful examination 
of the subject we are at once arrested by the 
word itself. As in the case of the word prophet, 
the word Evangelist comes into our language 
by transliteration. That of course is true also 
of the word Apostle. The Greek word euagge- 
listes has become evangelist. The arresting 
fact however is that this is a new word in the 
Greek language, unknown apart from the 
Christian fact. It is Biblical and ecclesiastical, 
the word of the Bible and the Church. De- 
rived from well-known words, all of which how- 

9a 

THE GOSPEL OF THE EVANGELIST 93 

ever acquired new meaning^ in their Christian 
use, this particular word, describing the men 
called to the definite work of proclaiming the 
Gospel, was created for this sacred use. Again 
we shall follow the same method of considera- 
tion, dealing in turn with. The Evangelistic 
Gift, The Evangelistic Function, and The Evan- 
gelistic Gospel. 

In dealing with the gift referred to by the 
Apostle in his statement that " He gave…
some Evangelists," we will once more give at- 
tention to the suggestiveness of the new Testa- 
ment group of words connected with the idea. 
They are three; first, euaggelizo, that is to 
evangelize, or to preach the Gospel; second, 
^uaggelio7i, that is the Evangel, or the Gospel; 
and third, euaggelistes^ that is the Evangelist. 
Of these the second two are derivatives of the 
first; while that is a compound of two words, 
eu, good; and aggellb, to bring tidings, or to 
announce. Thus to evangelize is to proclaim 
good tidings; the Evangel is the message of 
good tidings; while the Evangelist is the one 
who proclaims good tidings. The central con- 
ception of the words is that of a message sent, 
by someone to someone. That conception is 
qualified by the word eu^ meaning good or glad. 

94 THE WORD AS THE 

and gives character to the thought, as it sug- 
gests that it is a message which the sender is 
glad to send, and the receiver will be glad to 
receive. 

When we turn from the words in themselves 
to their use in the New Testament, we find 
that all these conceptions are present, and are 
intensified and made superlative by the nature 
of the Message which is to be proclaimed. The 
strength of the idea everywhere is twofold. 
The first element is that of the goodness of the 
news. It is news such as to bring joy to the 
heart of those who hear it. It is tidings of 
great joy to all people. The greatness of it, 
and the gladness of it thrill and throb through 
every reference to it, and constitute the first 
element of its strength. The second element 
is that of the fact that it is sent. It is news 
from God, and He sends it to men. Therein is 
a revelation of His attitude towards men in 
their need, in their sin, in their sorrow. His 
purpose for them is that of goodness, and He 
has news for them of how that purpose may be 
fulfilled. That good news He has sent to them. 
These facts make the Evangel, the Gospel, the 
message from God, of the utmost importance, 
of the first urgency, of supreme delight. It is 

GOSPEL OF THE EVANGELIST 95 

important because it is the message of God; 
urgent because it has to do with human need; 
and delightful because it is good news, news 
that tells of a way of deliverance from all that 
harms and hurts. 

The Gospel is variously described in the New 
Testament writings, and the phrases are in 
themselves interesting and illuminative. In the 
Gospels we read of " The Gospel of the King- 
dom of God"; in the Acts of ''The Gospel of 
the Grace of God"; in the Epistles of *'The 
Gospel of God," and of "The Gospel of Christ"; 
in the Apocalypse of " an eternal Gospel." It 
may be that these phrases have dispensational 
values, that is that they suggest the various 
applications of the Gospel to various ages, or 
periods. With that aspect of their significance 
I am not now interested. That which impresses 
me is the unveiling I find in them of different 
aspects of the one Gospel, for finally there is 
but one Gospel. In the phrase " the Gospel 
of the Kingdom of God," I hear the note 
of authority. The good news cannot be 
doubted, for it is a royal proclamation, coming 
with all the majesty of the Throne behind it. 
The phrase " The Gospel of the Grace of God " 
at once reminds me that the King is merciful 

96 THE WORD AS THE 

and full of compassion, and I know that the 
good news is a message of infinite and unfath- 
omable Love. The phrase " The Gospel of 
God " calls back to the mind the fact that the 
King is God, that the Lover is God, and so 
makes the sense of the authority of the good 
news absolute, and the consciousness of the 
love, such as to banish all doubt. The phrase 
" The Gospel of Christ " speaks of the avail- 
ability to man of all the grace promised in the 
message, for He is the Anointed of the Father, 
both as King and Priest, so that through Him 
men may find their way into the Kingdom 
through His Saviourhood. Such are the gen- 
eral impressions made by the prevalent idea in 
the New Testament writings. Let us take time 
to consider a little more particularly the place 
of the idea therein. 

Here I begin with some incidental but none 
the less interesting and illuminative notes. 
The idea is not of frequent occurrence in Mat- 
thew; the verb being found once, and the noun 
four times. In Mark the noun only is found; 
it is however the very key-note of his story, as 
witness the opening phrase, " The beginning 
of the Gospel of Jesus Christ." In Luke the verb 
only is found; he being supremely concerned 

GOSPEL OF THE EVANGELIST 97 

with the proclamation. John never employs 
either term save in the Apocalypse, where the 
noun is found twice. In the Acts it is found 
more frequently, the verb predominates, the 
noun occurring twice, and the word Evangelist 
once. In the letters of Paul the idea is constant, 
and the use of both noun and verb is common; 
the word Evangelist is found twice. 

In the historic sequence of the mission of our 
Lord we find the word Evangel first used by 
Gabriel in his message to Zacharias concerning 
the birth of John the forerunner. *' I was sent 
to speak unto thee, and to bring thee this evan- 
gel/' It was used again by an angel of the Lord 
as he said to the shepherds, " Behold, I bring 
you an evangel of great joy which shall be to all 
people." Describing the preaching of the herald 
John, Luke employs it as he says, " With many 
other exhortations preached he the evangel unto 
the people." Mark, describing the commence- 
ment of the more public preaching ministry of 
the Lord, says, "J^sus came into Galilee, preach- 
ing the evangel of God." In the Acts the refer- 
ence first in order to this aspect of ministry is 
found in the words, "And every day, in the tem- 
ple and at home, they ceased not to teach, and 
to evangelize Jesus as the Christ." 

98 THE WORD AS THE 

These are but illustrations, and are given to 
show how this conception of evangelization 
characterized the ministry of John, of the Lord 
Himself, and of His earliest messengers. They 
all went out among men with the joyful as- 
surance that they had good news to tell them. 

As we carefully follow the revelation through 
the history, and through the writings, we can- 
not fail to observe the growing apprehension of 
the content and value of the Gospel, which 
came to these men. They came to think and 
speak of it as a glorious Gospel, a Gospel pro- 
ceeding from the happy God— for so we may 
read the words, " the ever-blessed God." They 
found it to be a lonely Gospel; if men preached 
other gospels they were not gospels, for there 
was but this one. They proved as they 
preached it, that it 'was a powerful Gospel, of 
which not to be ashamed, even in Rome. They 
realized growingly that it was a testing Gospel, 
dividing men as they heard it, into two distinct 
classes, those of believers, and unbelievers, and 
so those elected to life and glory, and those 
doomed to death and shame; the division and 
electing resulting from their response to the 
message. 

The gift of the Evangelist is that special qua!- 

GOSPEL OF THE EVANGELIST 99 

ification which fits a man for proclaiming that 
good news to men powerfully and prevailingly. 
He gave — and He gives — some Evangelists. 

The evangelistic function then is patently 
that of proclaiming this Gospel. Its special 
emphasis in the commission of our Lord is 
found in that recorded by Mark/ *' Go ye 
into all the world, and preach the Gospel to 
the whole creation " (Mark 16:15). In this 
phrase " preach the Gospel " the verb ^uag- 
gelizo is not employed. The noun etiagge- 
lion is preceded by the verb kerusso, which 
means to proclaim as a herald, or simply to her- 
ald. The command is to herald the good news. 
Thus the phrase is rich in its revelation of the 
function of the Evangelist. The command to 
herald the Gospel gives the note of authority to 
evangelistic preaching. It speaks of the au- 
thorizing King; considers the message as au- 
thorized; and thus creates the authority of the 
messenger. This aspect of the work of the 
Evangelist implicates the claim of God upon 
man, and the consequent duty of man towards 
the message which God sends. While the mes- 
sage is one of infinite grace, good news indeed; 

* The commission as recorded by the four Evangelists 
must not be confounded. See my Missionary Manifesto. 

loo THE WORD AS THE 

it comes from the King, and therefore it is not 
one which man can treat Hghtly. Upon his re- 
ception of it, issues of tremendous and age-abid- 
ing importance depend. If the Prophet comes 
to men with the authoritative formula, "Thus 
saith the Lord,*' so also does the Evangelist, 
and this he will never forget. He offers a mes- 
sage of incomparable grace, but it is the procla- 
mation of eternal government, with which men 
must not trifle. Indeed the one sin which has 
no forgiveness is that of refusing to believe the 
message, and so resolutely declining the Di- 
vinely appointed way of deliverance-. 

But we return again to the other word of the 
phrase. It is the Evangel which is thus to be 
heralded. The King sends a message, but. it 
is a message of Love. The eternal Govern- 
ment issues its proclamation, but it is a proc- 
lamation of Grace, ofifering pardon, deliverance, 
restoration of all forfeited rights and privileges. 
This aspect of the work of the Evangelist im- 
plicates the need of man, and the Grace of God. 
And this is the supreme matter. The function 
of the Evangelist is not that of denouncing sin; 
nor is it that of discussing judgment in the sense 
of punishment. Both these things he will cer- 
tainly have to do in the course of his preaching, 

GOSPEL OF THE EVANGELIST loi 

but he cannot end with them. They are not 
the things he is specifically called upon to do. 
He is sent to sinning men, to men under sen- 
tence of punishment, to tell them of God's pro- 
vision for their forgiveness, cleansing, deliver- 
ance. The Evangelist then comes ever w^ith 
joy and gladness. He is a man alive with the 
tremendous fact that God has found a way by 
which His banished ones may return; and his 
preaching must ever be vibrant with the pas- 
sionate joy of it in his own soul. A gloomy, 
pessimistic Evangelist is a contradiction of 
terms. An Evangelist, cheerful even to hilarity, 
and optimistic in spite of the most utter hope- 
lessness in human thinking, is in the natural or- 
der. The Evangelist goes out in faith, in love, 
in hope. To take the central word first. He 
goes out in love, because he is the messenger 
of the King of Love, and the message he bears 
is the love message of God. The love of God is 
shed abroad in his heart. The love of Christ 
constraineth him. Therefore he loves those to 
whom he is sent, and that in spite of all their 
unworthiness, their defilement, their folly; for 
this is the Love of God, the Love of Christ. 
He goes out in faith; that is faith in God, in his 
message, and therefore in all those to whom he 

1:02 THE WORD AS THE 

is sent. As in the days of His flesh the faith 
which the Son of God had in the sons of men 
was the very inspiration of their faith in him, 
so is it still with those who herald His Evangel. 
And so he goes out in hope. He knows nothing 
of hopeless cases from the standpoint of the 
power of his Gospel, and therefore his business 
is to inspire hope in the most desponding and 
dejected. 

The Evangelist goes into all the world, that 
is to the whole creation, groaning and travail- 
ing together in pain; he faces its sorrow, its 
sighing, and its sin, where they all originate, in 
man; and his message is a royal proclamation of 
Grace. He publishes the good news that what 
man cannot do for himself, or for the creation, 
God in Christ has done; and that therefore 
there is hope for man, and through him, as he 
becomes in a new sense a son of God, for the 
whole creation beneath him. 

We may now consider the Evangel which is 
thus to be proclaimed. That Gospel is con- 
tained in the first four books of the New Testa- 
ment. It is not without significance that the 
Church has named the writers Evangelists. 
Two of them were Apostles, and two of them 
were closely associated with the Apostles in 

GOSPEL OF THE EVANGELIST 103 

their service. Yet the nature of their apostoHc 
writings constituted them Evangelists in very 
deed, for the story they tell is that of Jesus of 
Nazareth, the Son of God, and the Savior of 
the world. That story is the Gospel. 

In Paul's final summary of instructions to 
Timothy, we find a paragraph bounded by two 
injunctions; " Preach the Word "; and " Do the 
work of an Evangelist, fulfill thy ministry " 
(2 Timothy 4:2-5). Again therefore the Word is 
the Gospel. The Evangelist is doing his work, 
not when he is telling anecdotes— though these 
may be of great value when they are true and 
subservient; he is doing his work when he is 
telling the One Story of Jesus. This marks the 
limitation of his message. The limitation does 
not mean that his message is narrow or super- 
ficial. It is as broad as the love of God, and 
as profound as humanity's deepest spiritual 
needs. In the preaching of the Word by the 
Evangelist, the emphasis is on the message of 
God to men, as it meets their first needs, which 
are fundamental. The Evangel is God's love 
message to men. The whole of it is nowhere 
more perfectly summarized than in those most 
familiar, but most sublime words; " God so 
loved the world that He gave His only begotten 

1:04 THE WORD AS THE 

Son, that whosoever believeth on Him should 
not perish, but have eternal life." That is the 
Gospel. If that is a perfect summary, we may 
find perhaps the most perfect analysis of content 
in the words of our Lord concerning the mis- 
sion of the Spirit in the world, spoken to His 
disciples in the course of the paschal discourses 
(John 16:8-11). We will confine ourselves 
then to that passage, endeavoring to under- 
stand its main teaching. 

Let us first observe the subjects with which 
the Spirit deals in His ministry in the world; 
" He . ., will convict the world in respect 
of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment." 

These are the fundamental things of human 
consciousness, when the soul is spiritually awak- 
ened. That awakening may come in a thou- 
sand ways; it may come over and over again, 
without producing any effect whatever upon 
life. But whenever it comes, these are the mat- 
ters of which the soul is conscious, sin, right- 
eousness, judgment. 

Sin is first a volitional spiritual act; and then 
it is an experience resulting from the act. The 
spiritual act is that of disobedience. The ex- 
perience resulting is that of ruin. To say that 
sin is disobedience implies two things. Of these 

GOSPEL OF THE EVANGELIST 105 

the first is that of the relation of God to man; 
that He is Sovereign, and that His law is the 
true standard of human life. The second is that 
of man's relation to God; that he is capable of 
obedience to the law of God, and consequently 
that he is responsible. Sin fundamentally then 
is the wilful act of disobedience on the part of 
man, to the law of the Sovereign Lord to Whom 
man owes allegiance. 

The resulting experience of ruin is that of the 
alienation of the soul from God. This issues 
in suffering, and in paralysis, both individually 
and socially. Man out of fellowship with God 
has lost the secret of joy, and of power; and so 
is unable to realize his life personally and rela- 
tively. The soul of man spiritually awakened, 
comes to this consciousness. 

Righteousness is first a volitional spiritual atti- 
tude; and then it is an experience resulting from 
that attitude. The spiritual attitude is that of 
obedience. The experience resulting is that 
of realization. To say that righteousness is 
obedience, implies exactly the same things as 
to say that sin is disobedience; those namely, 
first of the Sovereignty of God, and secondly 
of the capacity and responsibility of man. 
Righteousness fundamentally then, is the will- 

io6 THE WORD AS THE 

ing attitude of obedience on the part of man to 
the good and acceptable and perfect will of God. 

The resulting experience of realization is that 
of the fellowship of the soul with God. This 
issues in peace and joy, by the Holy Spirit's 
enablement, both individually and socially. 
Man in fellowship with God possesses the secret 
of joy and of power; and so is able to realize his 
life personally and relatively. The soul of man, 
spiritually awakened, comes to this conscious- 
ness. It is involved in that of sin. Sin is the 
consciousness of failure. Righteousness is the 
consciousness of the ideal. 

Judgment is government, executive action, 
administration on the part of God. It is that 
activity whereby He realizes His purposes, es- 
tablishes and maintains order. It marks there- 
fore the center of human responsibility. Right- 
eousness in human life is right relationship with 
that judgment. Sin is rebellion against it, which 
nevertheless cannot escape from its activity. 
Judgment then in the case of man is that activ- 
ity of God, wherein He rewards the righteous, 
and punishes the wicked. The soul of man 
spiritually awakened comes to this conscious- 
ness. It knows that judgment is active. 

These then, the fundamental things of human 

GOSPEL OF THE EVANGELIST 107 

consciousness spiritually awakened, are the 
things concerning which the Spirit of God has 
a message, which message He delivers through 
those called to be Evangelists. That message 
is the Gospel. The Gospel is the Word of the 
Cross. The Word of the Cross is infinitely 
more than the story of the crucifixion. It is 
first the story of the Word made flesh; the 
presentation of the Person of Christ. It is then 
the story of the work of Christ; which includes 
the Cross, the resurrection, and the ascension. 
It is finally the story of the claim of Christ; the 
declaration of the appeal which the Word of 
the Cross makes to all those who hear it. 

The Gospel first presents the Person of 
Christ. He is God manifest, in His character, 
in His law, in His activity. He is also Man 
unveiled, in His capacity, in His obedience, in 
His realization. So also therefore He is the 
One Whose presence in human history has 
unmasked evil, as the opposite of all that is in 
God, and the secret of human undoing. All 
this is the first part of the Gospel, the light in 
which man discovers the truth. 

The heart of the Gospel is the story of the 
work of Christ, and of how He brings sin, 
righteousness, and judgment into relationship 

io8 THE WORD AS THE 

with Himself. Returning to our passage we 
find His declaration, to which we need to pay- 
close attention. 

" Of sin, because they believe not on Me." 
In these words our Lord made His superlative 
claim to perfect Saviourhood. By using them, 
He claimed to have provided perfect salvation 
for men. All the fact of sin He has dealt with. 
He is able to forgive, to cleanse, to restore. Sin 
now has a new meaning. It is the rejection of 
the Savior. This Savior is God the Sovereign 
Lord. To re^ject His grace then is the final 
and irremediable sin against His government. 
To yield to His grace is the central act of sur- 
render to His government. It is the act that 
introduces the soul to the attitude of right rela- 
tionship. That is the first note of the good 
news, which declares that " He died for our 
sins." 

" Of righteousness, because I go to the 
Father; and ye behold Me no more." In these 
words our Lord made His superlative claim to 
absolute authority, and spiritual power. He 
not only died for our sins, He rose for our 
justification, and ascended to the right hand of 
the Father to receive gifts for men. Men, no 
longer beholding Him with the eyes of sense. 

GOSPEL OF THE EVANGELIST 109 

may yet be brought into such Hving fellowship 
with Him, that in them may be fulfilled the 
ideal of righteousness. That is the second note 
of the Gospel. 

" Of judgment, because the prince of this 
world hath been judged." In these words He 
made His superlative claim to complete victory. 
The Stronger than the strong has wrested the 
usurped scepter from the enemy; and hence- 
forth He exercises His executive authority, 
delivering those that are bound, and moving 
ever triumphantly forward towards the consum- 
mation, when He shall deliver up the perfected 
Kingdom to His Father. This is the final and 
triumphant note of the Gospel. 

The Evangelist is called to declare that mes- 
sage, to herald that good news; and then to 
urge the claims of Christ. Those claims are 
threefold. He asks for confidence, for loyalty, 
for cooperation. Faith in Him is the condition 
of salvation; loyalty to Him the law of life; and 
cooperation with Him the activity of His own. 

Thus then is revealed the Gospel of the 
Evangelist. It is the Word of God which pro- 
claims His perfect provision in Christ for all 
human need. The gift is still bestowed and 
needed. 

no THE WORD AS THE 

Ever and anon the Head of the Church has 
sent forth some Evangehst whose message has 
arrested the attention of the multitudes to such 
an extent that nations have been moved to 
their very depths. Such times have been v^on- 
derful times. We necessarily long and pray 
that they should be repeated. We need to be 
careful however lest such longing and prayer 
should make us neglectful of the work of 
perpetual evangelization, for the doing of which 
gifts are constantly bestowed. When God 
sends Francis, or Wesley, or Whitefield, or 
Jonathan Edwards, or Finney, or Moody and 
Sankey, let us rejoice, and cooperate with them; 
but in days when no conspicuous and outstand- 
ing personality is with us, let us recognize and 
help gladly all those, oftentimes simple and 
obscure souls, who know the joy of the Gospel, 
and are specially qualified to proclaim it in the 
ordinary ways of their more regular and quiet 
life. And moreover, let every man or woman 
who is possessed by this joy and power for 
evangelism exercise their gifts constantly and 
restfully. 

If I may venture to quote a modern illustra- 
tion of real success in evangelistic work, I shall 
refer to a man whom I have known intimately 

GOSPEL OF THE EVANGELIST iii 

for over a generation. That man is Gipsy 
Smith. He is one of God's great gifts to His 
Church. I refer to him only to say that, under 
God, his success has been largely due to the 
fact that he has given himself wholly to evan- 
gelism. He has never attempted the work of 
Apostle, of Prophet, of Pastor and Teacher. 
But he has given himself with all devotion of 
mind and heart and will, both to the work of 
understanding the Gospel, and proclaiming it. 
His widespread popularity is accidental. He 
has never sought it. Had he done so he would 
not have had such conspicuous success. 

Not every Evangelist is called to paths of 
service which result in popularity. Every 
Evangelist is called to devotion to his message 
and to its proclamation. Let the Evangelist 
magnify his office, as he glories in his Gospel. 

THE WORD AS THE WISDOM OF THE 
PASTOR AND TEACHER 

IN our preliminary chapter on " Ministry " 
we described Pastors and Teachers as: 
Those zvho receive the obedient, and shepherd 
and instruct them. 

That definition properly links their work with 
that of Apostles, Prophets, and Evangelists. 
The apostolic teaching is that which the Pastor 
and Teacher interprets and applies to those who 
are brought into the fellowship of the Church. 
The work of the Prophet will inevitably result 
in the turning of those who hear and are influ- 
enced by the message, to the Church for in- 
struction. To these the Pastor and Teacher 
will minister, as he sets forth the way of life 
more perfectly. This statement involves the 
truth that every living Church should be so or- 
ganized that provision is made for those who 
are inquiring. Here the far-seeing wisdom of 

112 

WISDOM OF PASTOR AND TEACHER 113 

John Wesley was manifested, in that his Society 
classes were formed for those who were so in- 
quiring, as well as for those who had come to 
definite and conscious relationship with Christ. 
The work of the Evangelist, which is specifically 
that of proclaiming the Evangel, and bringing 
men into definite relationship with Christ, de- 
mands most especially the work of the Pastor 
and Teacher. Those who are new-born need 
care; and the work of shepherding and teaching 
them is that of the Pastor and Teacher. Thus 
we see that there is no conflict in the nature of 
the case between the different phases of this 
ministry of the Word. They are complemen- 
tary. None is complete without the rest. Each 
is completed in the work of all. 

This particular phase of the Ministry of the 
Word is defined by two words. Pastors and 
Teachers. These terms are mutually interpre- 
tive as we shall see. This is the only occasion 
of the occurrence of the particular word Pastor 
in the New Testament, either in the Authorized 
or Revised Versions. Elsewhere the Greek 
word is translated Shepherd. It has however 
passed into the currency of Church terms, and 
is valuable and suggestive. We shall follow the 
method of previous studies, and consider in 

114 THE WORD AS THE 

turn; The Pastoral Gift; Function; and Wis- 
dom. 

In considering the Gift we turn first to the 
words themselves, that we may gather their 
first and simple suggestions. 

Our word Pastor comes to us from the Latin 
pastorem, which means shepherd, and is derived 
from the verb to feed. The Greek word in the 
text, of which Pastor is a translation, is the 
word poimht, which is the word for shepherd, 
but the affinity of which is uncertain. It has 
been suggested by some that it is akin to pdia^ 
herbage, grass; * and by others that it is derived 
from a root meaning to protect. Seeing that 
this question of affinity is uncertain, we may 
treat the word as a primitive one, and so employ 
it, according to its constant use, as referring to 
a shepherd, whose work it ever is to find pastur- 
age and to protect. 

The word Teacher is a translation of the 
Greek word didaskalos, which is clearly derived 
from didaskb, which is the causative form of the 
verb dady to learn. Hence our word Teacher 
conveys the exact sense. 

' Some render pota in James 4:14, " Grass is your life." 
Most agree however that poia there is the feminine of 
poios, of what nature? 

WISDOM OF PASTOR AND TEACHER 115 

The use of the two words here to describe 
the one office is, as we have already said, of the 
nature of interpretation. On the purely natural 
level the word Pastor has to do with sheep, and 
the thoughts of feeding and protection are suf- 
ficient. When it is used of the flock of the 
Shepherd of souls, it needs the explanation of 
the word Teacher, which at once reveals the 
method of feeding and protection. 

In our Lord's use of the figure of the Shep- 
herd as applied to Himself (see John x.), the 
idea is radiantly set forth. The shepherd knows 
his sheep, and is known of the sheep. The 
shepherd takes oversight of his sheep; that is, 
he exercises rule over them, leading them out 
and in. The shepherd finds pasture for his 
sheep. The sihepherd defends the sheep; if 
necessary, laying down his life that they may 
be preserved from the ravening wolf. 

In our Lord's work as a Teacher we have the 
final interpretation of the method. It is that of 
imparting knowledge, carefully, patiently, pro- 
gressively, arid purposefully. 

Thus the thought suggested by the double 
description is that of shepherding through 
teaching, and of teaching as a shepherd. The 
work of the shepherd is to be done by teaching. 

2:6 THE WORD AS THE 

The sheep are to be made to know the Chief 
Shepherd, to submit to His rule, to shelter 
within His defense, to avail themselves of His 
pasture, by careful, patient, progressive, pur- 
poseful instruction. The measure in which this 
can be done is the measure in which the Pastor 
is a Teacher— himself taught in these very 
ways, and submitted to the teaching. The 
work of teaching is to be done in the spirit of 
the Shepherd. There must be concern to know 
the sheep, to exercise a true rule over them, to 
defend them at all costs, to provide their meat in 
due season. The measure in which this can be 
done is the measure in which the Teacher is a 
Pastor, so intimately in fellowship with the 
Shepherd heart of the Lord, as to be able to feed 
the lambs, to shepherd the sheep, to feed the 
sheep. 

The place of the idea in the New Testament 
is assured. That of the Shepherd, as the figure 
of the true nature of rule and authority, is an 
Old Testament idea, but it is carried over into 
the New; and it is there that it finds its final 
interpretation in the Person and work of Christ 
Himself. Paul's employment of the word 
*' Pastors " here is the only occasion where the 
word Shepherd is fig^uratively made use of in 

WISDOM OF PASTOR AND TEACHER 117 

the New Testament for any other than Christ. 
Luke employs the word four times in the early 
part of his Gospel; not in a figurative sense, but 
definitely, of those who were keeping watch 
over their flocks by night in the neighborhood 
of Bethlehem. Matthew, Mark, and John use it 
only of Christ. In describing the attitude of 
the Lord towards the multitudes which He saw 
as He went from place to place, teaching, 
preaching, healing, Matthew says that " He was 
moved with compassion for them, because they 
were distressed and scattered as sheep not hav- 
ing a shepherd." Clearly involved in that state- 
ment is the fact that He was the very Shepherd 
they needed. Our Lord according to John 
claimed to be "the Good Shepherd." The 
writer of the letter to the Hebrews called Him 
" that Great Shepherd." Peter wrote of Him 
as " the Chief Shepherd." All this makes the 
word " Pastors," as describing an office in the 
ministry of the Word, the more suggestive and 
sacred. 

The word Teacher is also constantly em- 
ployed in the Gospels of Christ Himself; and in 
the days of His flesh it was used of Him by 
foe and friend. His work of teaching is per- 
petually referred to, and in the passage in 

2:8 THE WORD AS THE 

Matthew previously quoted, it is stated that it 
was as He went about teaching, that His com- 
passion was moved for the multitudes. The 
truths He uttered were persistently described 
as His Teaching. When we come into the 
Epistles we find this idea of teaching is con- 
stantly present in any consideration of the work 
of the ministry. In the passage referred to in 
an earlier consideration, where Paul was dealing 
with the spiritual unity and organization of the 
Christian Church, he used the word "Teachers" 
alone, to describe the third order of those whom 
God has set in the Church to fulfill its ministry. 
It is of the utmost importance as we pass on to 
consider the function of Pastors and Teachers, 
that these two ideas should very clearly remain 
with us, as revealing the method and manner of 
the work. It is that of the oversight and in- 
struction of the members of the flock. 

In considering the pastoral function, we may 
change the figure and employ a common one in 
the New Testament wriiings, that of edification. 
The work of Pastors and Teachers is that of edi- 
fication. In this word there are special values in 
the interpretation of this subject. It comes to us 
from the Latin words, aedis, a building, and 
ficdre, to make. Thus it exactly coincides with 

WISDOM OF PASTOR AND TEACHER 119 

the Greek word, which is composed of two 
words, oikos, a house, and demo, to build. The 
idea of edification then is simply that of con- 
structing a building, with appropriate materials. 
This larger conception is always included. 
Whatever is done with the material, is done in 
the interest of the whole building. In the house 
of God, every individual must be perfected in 
order to the perfecting of the whole. Those 
attracted by the Prophet, or enrolled by the 
EvangeUst, constitute raw material. The work 
of the Pastor and Teacher is that of building 
them up into the Head, which is Christ, and so 
into the Body, which is the Church. Granted a 
group of persons who have heard, believed, 
obeyed, been born again; by the act of the Holy 
Spirit they are already members of the Christ, 
and so members of the Church; but their life is 
immature, their service is imperfect. To fall 
back upon the figure already used, they consti- 
tute raw material, the very material needed, but 
in the rough. They need much labor to fit 
them into their true place and function in the 
house of God. This is the work of the Pastor 
and Teacher. That work may at once be de- 
scribed as that of shepherding and teaching 
them, so that they come into complete subordi- 

1:20 THE WORD AS THE 

nation to Christ, and thus into perfect coordina- 
tion in the Church. 

This work is so supremely important that we ' 
will take time to look at it carefully in both 
these aspects, remembering their vital connec- 
tion. Neither the one nor the other can be 
done separately. The perfecting of the indi- 
vidual is in order to the perfecting of the 
Church. The perfecting of the Church can only 
be accomplished by the perfecting of the indi- 
vidual. 

The subordination of the individual soul to 
Christ demands three things; Christ must be 
apprehended intelligently, adored emotionally, 
and obeyed volitionally; and, as we shall see, 
that is the true order. 

When considering the work of the Evangelist 
we spoke of the content of the Gospel as re- 
vealed in Christ's words in the paschal dis- 
courses. The Spirit's message is concerned 
with Sin, Righteousness, and Judgment, as 
these things— fundamental in the consciousness 
of the spiritually awakened soul— are dealt with 
by Christ. The vision of tire Lord to which the 
soul yields itself in faith may be that of His 
sufficiency in all these matters. Or it may be 
that one aspect only is apprehended. It may 

WISDOM OF PASTOR AND TEACHER 121 

be that He is first seen as the Savior from sin. 
It may be that His power to realize righteous- 
ness attracts the soul. It may be that the glory 
of His government makes its appeal to the 
heart. There is one Lord; and whatever aspect 
of Truth appeals to the soul, there is one faith, 
that of confidence in Him; which faith leads to 
the one baptism in the Spirit, whereby the soul 
receives the gift of life. 

Now in every vision of Christ all Truth is im- 
plicated; but the implicates are never immedi- 
ately seen. This is a progressive experience, 
and results from shepherding and teaching. In 
order to perfect subordination, this intellectual 
apprehension is necessary; and to lead the new- 
born to it, is the sacred work of the Pastor and 
Teacher. Without staying to dwell upon it 
now, we may remind ourselves of the constantly 
expressed desire of Paul, especially in his later 
letters, that the children of God should have full 
knowledge of Christ; and also of Peter's injunc- 
tion that they should grow in the grace and 
knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus 
Christ. 

Such growing intellectual apprehension al- 
ways results in deepening emotional adoration. 
The more perfectly He is known, the more 

122 THE WORD AS THE 

amazed is the soul at the surpassing wonders of 
His grace and glory; and the deeper becomes its 
love, the more complete its adoration. If it be 
true as we sometimes sing that — 

" Some have lost the love they had," 

then it is because they have for some reason 
failed to " follow on to know the Lord." 

Such deepened love inevitably becomes the 
inspiration of more complete surrender to the 
will of the Lord, more perfect loyalty to all His 
service. " If a man love Me, he will keep My 
word," said the Lord Himself. 

Thus it is evident that in order to the com- 
plete subordination of individual believers to the 
Lord, the matter of first importance is that they 
should know Him. To make Him known to 
them is the supreme business of the Teacher, 
and he must do his work as a Shepherd, know- 
ing, ruling, defending, feeding. The whole con- 
ception of this individual responsibility is per- 
fectly set forth by Paul in the words, " Admon- 
ishing every man, and teaching every man in all 
wisdom, that we may present every man perfect 
in Christ" (Colossians 1:28). 

These words breathe the true spirit and 
passion of the Pastor and Teacher. He is pre- 

WISDOM OF PASTOR AND TEACHER 123 

eminently concerned about every individual 
soul. Observe the thrice repeated ** every 
man." The Pastor-Teacher has far more to do 
than to preach to his congregation. That un- 
questionably he will do, and his preaching will 
be of the teaching order. But " every man " is 
never reached in general teaching. The Pastor- 
Teacher must in the necessity of the case ac- 
quaint himself with the individuals which make 
up his flock. He must get to know them per- 
sonally. Every man has his own idiosyncrasy, 
peculiarity, problem, temptation, capacity. 
Therefore if every man is to be presented per- 
sect in Christ, every man must be considered, 
prayed for in the light of that consideration, ad- 
monished and taught in wisdom in such ways 
as to meet his own particular need. 

All this throws very clear and searching light 
on this subject of pastoral work, correcting 
much of modern irrelevancy therein. The true 
Pastor will do much more than make social calls 
upon members of his flock. That he will do. 
Indeed he will seek to mix with his people in all 
the interests of their lives, that he may know 
them, not inquisitorially, but sympathetically. 
But he will do all this, never forgetting that his 
particular work is that of perfecting them in 

124 THE WORD AS THE 

Christ, by admonishing them where necessary, 
and always by teaching them. 

But again. All this must be done with a view 
to the bringing of the individual into coordina- 
tion with the Church. It may be said that the 
work of perfecting every man in Christ is in it- 
self that of bringing every man into coordina- 
tion with the Church. While that is true, it is 
nevertheless of the utmost importance that this 
larger purpose should always be kept in mind. 
In this very connection Paul urged, as the first 
duty in a walk worthy of vocation, that we 
should give " diligence to keep the unity of the 
Spirit" (Ephesians 4:3).' This idea runs through 
his teaching on ministry in this epistle. The 
aim of ministry is that of " the building up of 
the body of Christ " (4:12); the purpose of all 
articulation within the body is that of " the in- 
crease of the body unto the building up of itself 
in love " (4:16); and the goal of everything is 
" the measure of the stature of the fullness of 
Christ " (4:13); which can only be realized in 
the whole Church. It is only as this is seen 
that the real importance of individual develop- 

* The word he employed, and which we have translated 
keep, was ^reb, to observe, that is, to keep in view; and not^ 
phulasso, to guard. 

WISDOM OF PASTOR AND TEACHER 125 

ment will be realized. The Pastor and Teacher 
then has to reveal to the souls under his care 
the purpose for which the Church exists; the 
consequent importance of her being a perfect or- 
ganism; and the necessity therefore for the 
completeness of the individual member. In 
proportion as this is apprehended, the glory of 
the trivial, the responsibility of the small, the 
importance of the obscure, will be realized. 

Perhaps there is nothing in which the Church 
has failed more conspicuously than in this reali- 
zation of spiritual unity. It has sometimes 
been entirely lost sight of; and at others has 
been falsely apprehended. Yet it is at once the 
supreme glory of the Church, and its secret 
of power in its mission, that it is an organism, 
in which no member can fail, without in the 
measure of that failure wronging the Body, and 
preventing the true fulfillment of its function in 
the world. As one cog out of order in complex 
machinery stops the perfect action of the 
whole; as one link weak in a chain renders the 
whole chain weak; as one unguarded place in a 
fortress makes the whole citadel unsafe; so one 
member of the Church, failing to realize in vi- 
sion and virtue its responsibility to the Church, 
halts iht Churcji in its progress, The cog is for 

126 THE WORD AS THE 

the machine, and its final perfection is that of its 
relation to the whole. So with the link in the 
chain. So with every part of the fortress. So 
also each member of the Church, in life and 
service, is for the Church. The work of the 
Pastor then, is ever that of coordinating every 
several member within the whole body of be- 
lievers. 

In all the ministry of the Word there is no 
more important work than that of the Pastor 
and Teacher, and none needing more consecra- 
tion, zeal, and patience. To fail here is to make 
abortive all apostolic, prophetic, and evangel- 
istic labor. It is with that conviction that we 
have taken longer in dealing with both gift and 
function than in the previous considerations; 
and also because in the natural order of things, 
in the history of the Church more have received 
this gift than either of the others. 

The title selected for this Lecture is that of 
the Word as the Wisdom of the Pastor and 
Teacher. Our reason for employing the word 
Wisdom in this connection is that of the apos- 
tolic use of it; especially Paul's teaching con- 
cerning it, in his first Corinthian letter; and his 
declaration already quoted from the Colossian 
letter that the responsibility, of the ministry is 

WISDOM OF PASTOR AND TEACHER 127 

that of '* admonishing every man, and teaching 
every man in all v^isdom." The word sophia 
was perfectly familiar in the apostolic age, and 
the people who read these writings had a very 
clear conception of what was intended by the 
term. Aristotle defined sdphia as " mental ex- 
cellence in its highest and fullest sense." Wis- 
dom is broad and full intelligence; not as 
capacity merely, but as knowledge. Wisdom is 
in reality the sum total of Truth. It was in this 
sense that Paul used the word when writing to 
the Corinthians he said; " We speak wisdom 
among the perfect, yet a wisdom not of this 
age, nor of the rulers of this age which are com- 
ing to naught, but we speak God's wisdom in a 
mystery" (1 Corinthians 2:6). To this wisdom then 
he referred when he spoke of " Teaching every 
man in all wisdom." Immediately following 
this declaration we have a clear definition of this 
wisdom in which every man is to be taught in 
the words; " The mystery of God, even Christ, 
in Whom are all the treasures of wisdom and 
knowledge hidden " (Colossians 2:2, 3); and again 
later in his injunction, " Let the Word of Christ 
dwell in you richly in all wisdom " (Colossians 3:16). 
The wisdom in which the Pastor and Teacher 
is to instruct the flock of God is that of the 

128 THE WORD AS THE 

Word of Christ; for in Him are all the treasures 
of wisdom and knowledge. To revert again to 
a phrase which was under consideration in a 
previous study, *' As the truth is in Jesus "; the 
wisdom of the Christian Church is the sum total 
of Truth as that Truth has had its exposition in 
Jesus. The practical values of that wisdom are 
all suggested in the familiar words, ** Christ 
Jesus, Who was made unto us Wisdom from 
God; both righteousness, and sanctification and 
redemption" (1 Corinthians 1:30). I have intention- 
ally adopted the marginal reading of the Re- 
vised Version here because I hold that '' Wis- 
dom from God " is the inclusive phrase, of 
which the practical analysis is given in the 
words " both righteousness and sanctification 
and redemption." Righteousness is that which 
is imputed to man when sin is put away; sancti- 
fication is the impartation to man of the life 
whereby righteousness is made the victorious 
principle of conduct; redemption is the final im- 
planting of the likeness of Christ at His coming, 
whereby the judgment or government of Christ 
will come to its full and perfect victory. This 
then is the Wisdom which the Pastor and 
Teacher must impart; and these are the pur- 
poses for which it is to be taught. 

WISDOM OF PASTOR AND TEACHER 129 

That Wisdom is contained in the Sacred 
Writings, for in these alone we have the litera- 
ture of the Christ. This is a most important 
fact. There is no Christian literature which 
is not the outcome of these New Testament 
writings, because only in these have we any 
history of Christ. By reference, and allusion. 
He is placed in human histories; but we know 
nothing from them of Who He was, of what 
He taught, of what He did. For all these we 
must come to the New Testament. To deny its 
accuracy is to be left without any certain knowl- 
edge concerning Him. All the spiritual and 
moral triumphs of two thousand years have been 
won by belief in the Christ, as He is presented 
in these writings. This matter however needs 
no argument here. We have the Truth about 
Christ in these writings in germ and in norm. 
It is there in germ. That is to say, that for its 
full understanding, there has been necessary the 
progressive interpretation of the Holy Spirit. 
The meaning of Christ, of His Person, of His 
teaching, of His work, was far profounder and 
more far reaching than the men who wrote the 
records knew. Indeed even today, " all the 
treasures of wisdom and knowledge " hidden in 
Him have not been discovered. There is cer- 

1:30 THE WORD AS THE 

tainly yet much more light and truth to break 
forth from " the Word of God." 

But it must also be remembered that in these 
writings we have the truth concerning Christ in 
norm. That is to say that interpretation must 
be, in the nature of the case, exposition of the 
statements themselves; and not that of addition 
or denial. Every action of the mind in its at- 
tempt to grasp the meaning of the revelation 
must be guarded and corrected by the revela- 
tion. Directly an interpretation makes neces- 
sary the denial of a statement of the writings, it 
is thereby proved to be false. These things be- 
ing granted, we say that the wisdom of the 
Pastor and Teacher is the Word of God in its 
totality, as it is contained in the Scriptures of 
Truth. It is his business, in the spirit of the 
true Shepherd, to understand, to explain, to 
apply, to enforce that Truth. 

Thus as we conclude our consideration of the 
primitive Ideal we may draw attention to the 
fact that in every exercise of the Ministry of the 
Word, whether apostolic, prophetic, evangelis- 
tic, or pastoral, the fourth phase of the Word is 
realized. 

It is that of the interpretation of the Word, 
first in the preparation of the Records; and then 

WISDOM OF PASTOR AND TEACHER 131 

in their progressive unfolding; and the insistent 
urging of their claims; so that in and through 
Christ, the Eternal Word, life may be brought 
into harmony with the will of God. For this, 
as surely as for all revelation, the Spirit of God 
Who alone knoweth the deep things of God, is 
needed; and He is the ever-willing Guide of all 
who, called to the Work, yield themselves to 
His illumination. 

When that is said, it must be added, that 
the Spirit of God in interpretation, only acts 
through the painstaking toil of those who are 
called upon to interpret the Wisdom of perfec- 
tion to those who are to be presented *' perfect 
in Christ.** Ruskin*s words should be carefully 
considered by all called to this holy service; 
" The Word of God…cannot be made a 
present of to anybody in morocco binding." Or 
again, what he wrote of ** man's best wisdom," 
is more than ever true of this Wisdom; " When 
you come to a good book you must ask yourself 
— Am I inclined to work as an Australian miner 
would? Are my pickaxes and shovels in good 
order, and am I in good trim myself, my sleeves 
well up to the elbow, and my breath good, and 
my temper? " 

When the Pastor and Teacher treats his 

132 WISDOM OF PASTOR AND TEACHER 

work in that spirit of complete dedication, then 
the Holy Spirit of consecration will work with 
him, and in his case it will never be true that — 

" The hungry sheep look up — and are not fed." ' 

Ill 

The Modern Application 

THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 

SO far our study has been Biblical in a very 
narrow sense. This use of the word nar- 
row is not intended as an apology for 
what we have done. It is rather an acknowl- 
edgment. The narrowness has been intentional 
and vital. In this matter, as in all others, 
" Narrow is the gate, and straitened is the way, 
that leadeth unto life." 

We have looked at the beginnings of the 
Christian ministry of the Word; the times of 
Jesus, the times of the Apostles. We have 
been dealing with the primitive Ideal. Some- 
times there is a suspicion of contempt in our 
use of the word primitive. There is no justifi- 
cation for any such contempt. The word sim- 
ply means first or earliest of its kind. Thus we 
have been concerned with the beginnings, the 
origins. We have been at the sources of the 
great rivers. 

135 

136 THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 

George Borrow in his Wild Wales tells how 
when he had ascended Plynlimmon to see the 
sources of the rivers Severn, Wye, and Rheidol, 
he said to his guide; " It is not only necessary 
for me to see the sources of the rivers, but to 
drink of them, in order that in after times I may 
be able to harangue about them with a tone 
of confidence, and authority." This quaint con- 
ceit of the erratic genius has very definite value 
when applied to our studies. We have — as I 
said — been at the sources of the great rivers, 
and I trust we have been doing more than look 
at them; we have been drinking of them. 

The springs among the glorious hills of 
Wales, however, are only known in all their 
glory, beauty, and strength in the resulting 
rivers; and ultimately in their return to that 
great sea, from which they first came through 
the ministry of clouds and mists, all sun-created. 
So also for us, the interpretation of these first 
things must finally be sought in all the growth 
and glory of the resulting rivers of grace and 
power. 

It is of the utmost importance therefore that 
we should remember the law of development. 
We have seen it already operating in the earliest 
times, as set forth in the apostolic references to 

THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 137 

ministry. Nothing is more patent in the book 
of the Acts than its revelation of the operation 
of this law in the Christian enterprise. In that 
book we clearly see that the early Church was 
entirely unhampered by anything in the nature 
of stereotyped policy or method. Where the 
Spirit of the Lord is, there is Uberty; and among 
other things, that certainly means liberty to 
adapt methods to changing conditions. 

It is equally important however that we re- 
member that development is not destruction. 
Rightly apprehended, evolution always means 
involution. That is not true evoluiion which 
destroys the original intention, or subverts its 
order. It is therefore most pertinent that we 
inquire how far the primitive Ideals are prac- 
ticable in modern conditions. 

In dealing with this subject I propose to make 
two statements, following each by a question. 
The first of these is that the conditions are 
changed. The second is that the conditions are 
unchanged. The question in each case may be 
expressed in the use of the one word; — How? 
Along these lines of consideration and inquiry, 
we may come to an understanding of our own 
times, and of our own responsibility. 

In considering the subject of changed con- 

138 THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 

ditions we are of course confined to what we 
usually describe as civilization. There are still 
regions where the conditions are unchanged, 
places where civilization is no more advanced 
than was that in the midst of which Christ and 
His Apostles did their work; as there are also 
still places in which man is living in savagery 
and darkness. Our concern is with the condi- 
tions of modern civilization, as it has advanced 
from that of the times of Christ and the first 
preachers of the Word. We shall confine our 
inquiry to three matters, those namely of Phi- 
losophy, Science, and Government. It goes 
without saying that we can only glance at these 
matters in the most general way. 

The study of Philosophy may be said to have 
begun nearly six centuries before Christ. Plato 
declared that Philosophy was the child of won- 
der, and that is at once a fair definition, and a 
perfect vindication. Men began to be discon- 
tented with traditional and mythical explana- 
tions of the nature and origin of things, and 
sought to discover the truth. It is not inaccu- 
rate to say that Philosophy was from the begin- 
ning an attempt to answer the very question 
which Pilate asked of Jesus, " What is truth? '* 
It is not necessary for us, here and now, to at- 

THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 139 

tempt to trace the history of the efforts made to 
answer that inquiry, nor indeed would it be pos- 
sible. It is a history full of fascination, the 
story of the most wonderful activity of man, far 
surpassing all his material inventions, and in- 
deed, the inspiration of them in their higher 
achievements. 

Beginning with questions growing out of the 
vision of things that appear, that is the physical 
and manifest facts, it proceeded to questions 
concerning the inward mysteries, the things 
which do not appear, save as material things are 
their expression. The great period of creative 
thinking ended with the death of Aristotle, 
about three hundred years before Christ. This 
was followed by nearly two thousand years of 
comparative barrenness. The first eight cen- 
turies of this period are usually described as the 
period of Greek-Roman Philosophy. It was far 
more practical than speculative. The chief 
movements were those of Epicureanism, Stoi- 
cism, and Neo-Platonism; of which the first two 
were mainly ethical, while the last was more 
distinctly religious. 

Before Christ came, four main philosophies of 
life had been produced, the Platonic, the Aris- 
totelian, the Epicurean, and the Stoic. Of 

1:40 THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 

these the first resulted in an ascetic ideal of 
ethics; the second, subordinating the individual, 
aimed at social realization; the third became 
selfish in its pursuit of personal pleasure to the 
forgetfulness of all relative obligations; while 
the last demanded a self-control that vi^as in it- 
self selfish, and became cold and callous. 

In a thought atmosphere largely influenced 
by these ideas, Jesus and His Apostles exercised 
their ministry; only it must be remembered that 
it was a dead and barren season even in these 
matters. When Paul preached at Athens, he 
wsiS not speaking to living and original thinkers, 
but to men v^ho v^ere discussing v^ords, and the 
theories of dead thinkers. It v^^as a time when 
the dead hand of a great past was resting upon 
human thought, and Philosophy was decadent 
indeed. 

Science in our modern sense of the word 
was not then born. It was a department of 
Philosophy. Bacon was the father of modern 
Science, by his introduction of the inductive 
method, the application of the faculty of logic 
to the consideration of facts. In the days of 
Jesus and His Apostles, the Hebrews believed 
with all simplicity the revelation of their Scrip- 
tures concerning the relation of the world to 

THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 141 

God, interpreting that revelation with more or 
less of accuracy, in the light of the thinking of 
the age in which they lived. That thinking was 
largely nebulous, and certainly far from accu- 
rate, as all modern investigation has proved. 
The conception of the universe was narrow, and 
the understanding of the earth, by comparison 
with that of today, childish and ignorant. 

As to Government, it is sufficient to say that 
Christ lived during the period of the Pax 
Romana, the peace established among nations 
under the rule of Rome. In other words it was 
the time when the known world was bruised and 
beaten into quietness and submission, under the 
military despotism which had usurped all gov- 
ernment, and claimed the authority of Deity for 
its Imperators. It was the period when human- 
ity was ground under the relentless and iron 
heel of brute force. It had no true liberty. In 
its chains, it made roads, conducted commercial 
enterprises, and all unknowingly to itself, pre- 
pared for the new age which was about to dawn. 
It was nevertheless a period of utmost cruelty, 
in which the vast majority of human beings 
were in actual slavery, and those supposed to be 
ruling, were in turn coerced by those above 
them, until the Emperor was reached, and he 

142 THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 

lived in perpetual terror of the assassin's dag- 
ger, or the intriguer's poison. It was the day 
of triumphant despotism, and of incipient revo- 
lution. 

Philosophy was in a state of futile discussion 
of the great thinking of the past, without a ray 
of new light, or a breath of true inspiration. 
Science lay inchoate in the womb of this mori- 
bund Philosophy, satisfied for the moment with 
inaccurate guessing upon the basis of imperfect 
thinking. Government had wrought itself out 
in utter godlessness to a cruel and destructive 
despotism. 

Under these conditions, there went forth into 
the world, the Apostles, Prophets, Evangelists, 
and Pastors and Teachers of the Christian 
Church. Their methods we have considered; 
and the content of their message; the Apostles 
declared the Word, as Truth is in Jesus; the 
Prophets were burdened with the Word of God; 
the Evangelists heralded the great Evangel; the 
Pastors and Teachers gathered the souls won 
from the prevailing darkness and death, and 
shepherded and instructed them in the Wisdom 
of God. With what speedy and far reaching 
victory they prosecuted their ministry we know. 
But the conditions are marvelously changed; 

THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 143 

more largely as the result of their work than 
we sometimes recognize. Let us consider the 
change. 

First as to Philosophy. Dr. Elias Compton, 
Professor of Philosophy in Wooster College, 
has said that '* Apart from Christ, the western 
world has brought forth no other great Phi- 
losophy of life than the four — the Platonic, the 
Aristotelian, the Epicurean, and the Stoic. The 
modern systems are variants of these, with 
graftings from Christianity." This is a daring 
statement, but there is no doubt whatever that 
it is literally true. Any careful student of these 
philosophies of the past will discover how all 
that was excellent in them is included within 
the scope of Christian Truth, purged from alloy, 
and welded into the complete whole, of which 
Christ was in His personality the Incarnation, 
and in His ethic the Exponent. The long bar- 
ren period in human Philosophy continued from 
the death of Aristotle in 322 B. C. to the time of 
Bacon and Descartes in the seventeenth century 
of the Christian era. It was not wholly barren, 
for Christian teaching was at work, and prepar- 
ing for the modern period of activity which be- 
gan three hundred years ago. After the strictly 
apostolic period came the patristic, with its dis- 

144 THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 

cussion of the apostolic. This was followed by 
that of the scholastic, which for a thousand 
years was active. 

Then came the period when Bacon initiated 
the era of Science; and, under Descartes, Phi- 
losophy was born again, and entered upon its 
second period of activity. The march of phil- 
osophic thought during these three hundred 
years may be indicated by the names of those 
men whose philosophies have contributed some- 
thing to the sum total of human intelligence, 
and then passed, as others have succeeded them 
with yet more light. Descartes, Hobbes, Spi- 
noza, and Leibnitz led the way, as pure rational- 
ists, declining to believe anything but those 
things which they considered axiomatic, that is, 
which could not be called in question. Then 
came the period of the Empiricists, Locke, 
Berkeley, Hume, declining to receive anything 
as true that did not find ratification in known 
experience. Closely allied with these was Kant 
the critic, yet his influence created a period in 
itself, by his insistence on pure, or a priori 
truths, and finally on the corner-stone of moral 
reason, conscience. Then followed the great 
period of German idealism, of which the ex- 
ponents were Fichte, Schelling, Schopenhauer, 

THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 145 

and the last and greatest, Hegel. Comte fol- 
lowed Hegel with Positivism, declaring that 
knowledge can only be of facts and their inter- 
relations, thus swinging back towards the em- 
piricism of Hume. Lotze took thinking back 
into the realm of idealism, as he declared that at 
last the universe must be interpreted in the 
terms of the spiritual. Most recently we have 
had the Pragmatic Philosophy of James and 
Dewey, which declares that the only way to 
know is to test by experience. 

Thus it will be seen that since the days of 
Christ and His Apostles, and, as we have 
claimed, largely under their influence, directly 
or indirectly, Philosophy has gone far, but it 
has arrived at no final findings. It is still in a 
state of flux. 

As to Science, we need only say that, during 
the three hundred years in which it has really 
been a separate section of human thought, it has 
made marvelous strides, and given to men the 
consciousness of a far more wonderful and much 
vaster universe. 

Science and Philosophy for a generation have 
been enormously under the influence of the evo- 
lutionary theory, which has been applied back- 
ward to the beginnings of things, and forward to 

146 THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 

the inclusion of the ultimate realization of des- 
tiny. That there is an evolutionary process at 
work in the universe is universally admitted. 
That it accounts for everything is not only open 
to grave doubt, it is explicitly denied by Divine 
revelation. Nevertheless, modern conditions 
are dominated to a large extent by the theory. 

When we come to Government we find an 
equally remarkable change in conditions. Not- 
withstanding the backward plunge of the last 
generation, culminating in the tragedy of the 
world war, to the attempt to master the world 
by brute force, we realize how far men have 
traveled towards the realization of the suprem- 
acy of the authority of ideas, and these of the 
highest— Truth, Justice, Compassion. More- 
over, today men are realizing the importance 
of freedom for all, rather than for the few; with 
its inevitable corollary of necessary bondage to 
the principles of Truth, Justice, and Compas- 
sion for all, in order to the freedom of all. It is 
well to remind ourselves that these higher 
things have been quite as clearly manifest in 
this world war as have been the lower. It is for 
these that millions went forth to suffer, and 
multitudes of them to die. Here the Christian 
influence has been direct and immediate. All 

THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 147 

these higher conceptions are the direct outcome 
of Christian Truth. 

So far as the attempt to impose brute force 
upon humanity as the basis of government can 
be defeated by force of arms, it has been de- 
seated upon these fields of blood and agony. 
That which succeeded two millenniums ago 
under Rome, has been crushed in its most re- 
cent adventure. The victory has been gained 
as the result of the power of the conceptions 
which came into human thinking with the com- 
ing of the Incarnate Word, and were proclaimed 
by the first ministers of that Word. 

The victory is not yet complete. The battle 
passes finally into the realm of ideas, and their 
application to the actuaUties of life. There, it 
is now proceeding. Such is the full meaning of 
all our discussions in the realm of reconstruc- 
tion. If brute force be dispossessed of the 
scepter, into whose hand is it to pass, is the 
question of questions. If the disorderly im- 
pulses of men are not to be controlled ulti- 
mately by the mailed fist, how are they to be 
controlled? These are the problems creating 
the conditions under which the ministry of the 
Word is now to be exercised. 

The preacher of today then has to face an 

148 THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 

age of greater enlightenment, fuller knowledge, 
and higher conceptions of life, all largely result- 
ing from the preaching of the Word according 
to the primitive Ideal; but he has still to face a 
world waiting for a true and perfect authority 
in order to the realization of perfect order. 

We turn then to our second contention, which 
is that the conditions are unchanged. Here I 
begin with a general affirmation. It is Biblical, 
but it is borne out by all experience, and it is 
that humanity is essentially one, and in that 
sense it is unchanged. It is one in all the cen- 
turies; in all its own divisions of race, caste, and 
creed; in spite of its varied and ever-varying 
customs, habits, manners. That essential unity 
is that of its spiritual nature; it is not uniformity 
of bodily powers; it is not unanimity of mental 
conceptions; it is unity of spiritual being. 

Of that unity there ever have been, and still 
are, two universal expressions, those namely of 
the quest for truth, and the sense of sin. These 
may be described by other phrases, but they are 
found in all human beings, call them by what 
names we may. 

The quest for truth is the inspiration of edu- 
cation in a child, in an adult, in a race. It is 
simple, elemental, fundamental. In a child it 

THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 149 

expresses itself in the eternal Why? How? 
What? It is the desire to know. Call it in- 
quisitiveness, curiosity, or what you will, it is 
there; persistently making demands, refusing to 
be silenced. It is everlastingly asking ques- 
tions, seeking to discover secrets, knocking at 
barred doors. It persists in adult life, and all 
advance in thought and power results from the 
insistent determination to find out hidden 
things. 

This ineradicable passion of humanity ex- 
presses itself in revolt, and in investigation. It 
revolts against custom, and against tradition. 
It breaks through the former, and violates the 
latter, in its determination to find the reason 
for each; and if there be no sufficient reason, 
then to find its way out into the larger spaces, 
the more ample freedom. It declines bondage, 
save as bondage can be proven to be the condi- 
tion of freedom. Therefore it challenges all 
sanctions, demanding that they vindicate them- 
selves in the terms of truth, which are the only 
terms of ultimate necessity. No Philosophy, 
no Science, no Religion, which refuses to yield 
to the asking, the seeking, the knocking of the 
human soul, is ultimately tolerated. 

That universal spirit of man will consider the 

ISO THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 

suggestion, examine the hypothesis, attend to 
the claim, until it is halted and forbidden to in- 
quire. When that is done, the soul refuses to 
submit, and flings over the barrier as an imperti- 
nence and an enemy. All this is the push of the 
human soul towards the facts, and that ulti- 
mately, if we know how to direct it, is the push 
of the human soul towards God. The activity of 
the soul is that of investigation, in the conduct 
of which it is often apparently ruthless; but the 
soul is never in such dire peril as when the 
process ceases, and it becomes content not to 
know, ceases its asking, abandons its seeking, 
no longer knocks. 

It may be said that this cessation of effort 
is the normal condition of humanity. I can 
only reply that I do not believe it. It may be, 
and alas it is so, that men follow false lights, 
and seek to discover by wrong and disastrous 
methods, but deep down in the spiritual nature 
of man this quest is powerful and persistent. 

It must be added however that the quest for 
truth is not in itself the finding of the Truth. 
Every discovery creates new problems, more 
complex than those which have been solved by 
investigation. Beyond the reach of the finite 
mind are vast spaces, which cannot be discov- 

THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 151 

ered, and entrance to which can only come by- 
revelation, the yielding up of secrets as from 
within. They are only yielded in answer to 
investigation along true lines; but even then, 
they must be given from within, or they will 
never be found. The more earnest and sincere 
the search for truth is, the more teachable be- 
comes the soul. When the soul is not teach- 
able, it is because it has ceased investigation. 
It has stopped at some half-way house, which 
perchance it may call agnosticism. Content- 
ment with ignorance, that is with agnosticism, 
is the paralysis of the spirit. Yet even when 
man has so halted, the capacity remains. Can 
these bones live? may be our question as we 
look at men; but the answer of the Bible, and 
the answer of experience is that by the breath 
of the Lord they can. This is one phase of the 
unchanged and unchanging fact in human con- 
ditions. 

To leave the statement there, would be to 
have recognized a fact, but not to have realized 
the whole fact. Side by side with the quest for 
truth, there is the sense of sin. Again I say 
we may describe this by any other phrase. The 
fact remains. It is that of humanity's abiding 
bondage, its persistent paralysis. M'^n desiring 

152 THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 

truth yield to a lie; endeavoring after good- 
ness, they are unequal to realization. This 
sense has many, and oftentimes strange, meth- 
ods of expression. Sometimes it expresses it- 
self by vehement denial. Such denial only 
holds good v^hen it operates in the realm of 
theory, and of formulated terminology. A man 
will deny sin, but will admit deflection from 
strict veracity, departure from the mastery of 
the highest; or at least he will confess that he 
has not been able to realize perfectly his own 
ideal of human life. He may try to console 
himself by saying that no one has realized the 
ideal, but that does not change the true nature 
of his admission. Sometimes the sense of sin 
is expressed in attempts to excuse it. This may 
be done by laying the blame of it on others — a 
very old human expedient; or by declaring 
it to be a necessary part of the process of devel- 
opment, a more modern method. Such excuses 
do not get rid of the fact. Far oftener than we 
sometimes imagine, the sense of sin is expressed 
within the soul in a poignant agony, born of the 
consciousness of pollution, and of consequent in- 
capacity. Whatever the expression, the fact 
remains that Paul gave utterance to a great 
elemental human consciousness when he wrote, 

THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 153 

" When I would do good, evil is present with 
me." 

It may be that the fact is laughed away; it 
may be tolerated as inevitable; it may be that 
it is the cause of perpetual agony; it is there, a 
persistent consciousness of humanity, in all 
ages, under all conditions, in spite of all human 
attempts to deal with it. 

What effect have the changes we considered 
had upon these unchanged things of human ex- 
perience? All the increased light in which we 
live, philosophical, scientific, and governmental, 
has but served to reveal our ignorance more 
profoundly. 

Philosophy has not given us the final secret, 
Science has not solved the riddle of the universe. 
Men are still as far as ever, in their unaided 
wisdom, from the knowledge that brings rest 
because it illumines the mind, and gives rest in 
the midst of unsolved problems. Indeed it is 
questionable whether there ever was such un- 
rest in the realm of human thought as there is 
today. Men are filled with a deadlier hopeless- 
ness, because they are less ignorant than they 
were, because access of knowledge has only 
meant the discovery of vaster mysteries than 
man had ever imagined. 

154 THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 

The clearer light in human government, in- 
dividual, social, national, has but served to make 
man more terrifically conscious of the av^ful 
power of sin, and the appalling corruption of 
human life. The things that are changed are 
after all the accidentals of life. The essentials 
are unchanged, and v^e are at once reminded 
that the primitive Ideal of preaching W2is fun- 
damentally that it had to do with these essential 
things. It may be said with confidence that our 
Lord and His Apostles, Prophets, Evangelists, 
did not profess to deal with Philosophy, Science, 
or Government. All were included in their 
message; all have been affected by their min- 
istry; but they dealt directly, invariably, with 
these very essential things of the soul. They 
went out to answer its quest for truth by the 
revelation of the God of Truth; and to deal with 
the sense of sin by proclaiming the Evangel of 
the way of deliverance. To deal with essen- 
tials is to control accidentals; and this was the 
aim of the primitive Ideal in the Ministry of 
the Word. 

Nothing is more self-evident in any consid- 
eration of the history of the Christian ministry 
of the Word than the effect it has produced 
upon human conditions. It has flung light upon 

THE CHANGED CONDITIONS 155 

the whole realm of philosophical inquiry, in- 
troducing new elements, which it has been im- 
possible for philosophers to ignore, and which 
have ensured an advance in human intelligence 
which is one of the most wonderful things in 
human history. It has claimed for men that 
freedom for investigation which has been the 
secret of all scientific activity and discovery. 
It has touched the human spirit with that sense 
of its own inherent greatness, which has re- 
sulted in its protest against every form of 
tyranny which holds men in bondage. 

Thus the ministry of the Word has to be 
exercised today in changed conditions, which 
are the results of that same ministry, as it began 
with the Christ, was carried on by the earliest 
Apostles, Prophets, Evangelists, Pastors and 
Teachers; and has been maintained, with vary- 
ing force and effectiveness, by the long and 
gracious succession of those called to the sacred 
work until now. 

THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 

IN this study we return to the more strictly 
BibHcal position, that is, to the Christian. 
Recognizing the persistence in human ex- 
perience of the quest for Truth, and of the sense 
of sin, we face the subject of obHgation. 

If these facts of experience abide, and we 
need not argue this further; and if the deposit 
of the Christian Church be that Word of God 
which meets these facts of experience, and that 
is the assumption on which Christian Ministry 
is based; then the fact of obHgation is patent. 
Our final obligation is that of preaching the 
Word. To the consideration of that matter I 
propose to lead up, by a brief discussion of the 
wider human obligations which make that 
preaching necessary. 

Of these the fundamental is that man be right 
with God. That, to the Christian, is the inclu- 
sive philosophy of life. It is based on two 

156 

THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 157 

matters which constitute the first and simplest 
things of our belief; those namely of the nature 
of man, and of the character of God. 

The Biblical doctrine of man is that he is the 
creation of God; that his creation was a separate 
act, by which — although related to everything 
beneath him in the earthly scale of being — he 
was placed at an infinite distance from these 
lower forms, and given the right and the power 
to reign over them as the representative to 
them of the God from Whom all had come; that 
the nature of this act was that of an inbreathing 
of the breath of lives, whereby man became 
offspring of God, in the Divine image and 
likeness. 

This conception of man necessarily involves 
the conviction that in the deepest fact of his 
personality, which is spiritual, he has in his 
very nature the closest relationship with God; 
a relationship which must be maintained if man 
is to realize his own life, fulfill his destiny, be- 
come experimentally what he is potentially. 
This necessity abides, in whatever condition 
man may find himself. Nothing can possibly 
be substituted iru the spirit-life of man, for its 
direct access to God, and dealing with Him, 
without disaster of the most complete kind 

158 THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 

eventuating in the experience of man. More- 
over, v^herever that disaster has eventuated, 
nothing can set it right but the return of man 
to this relationship v^ith God, which he has lost. 
All this, as v^e have said, is not based upon a 
law imposed upon man apart from the facts of 
his nature; it is inherent in his nature. To be 
alienated from the life of God is to be destroyed. 

The Biblical doctrine as to the nature of God 
is that He is love. That is the final and inclusive 
truth. While that is the final revelation of the 
Bible concerning God, we need the Biblical in- 
terpretation of love, or else we may wander 
very wide of the mark in our exposition of this 
truth. God is holy and just, as surely as He is 
merciful and full of compassion. All these 
things are so because He is love. All this being 
so, the fact that man's first obligation is that of 
right relationship with Him is still more patent. 
To be right with Him is indeed to be conformed 
to His likeness, to share His nature; it is to be 
love, and such love as is holy and just, merciful 
and full of compassion. These are the things 
that make personal life really strong and beauti- 
ful, and apart from which human fellowship can 
never be brought to perfection of realization. 

In his Gifford Lectures on " The Varieties of 

THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 159 

Religious Experience," Professor James gave 
his final conclusion in these words: 

** We and God have business v^ith each 
other; and in opening ourselves to His 
influence our deepest destiny is fulfilled." 

That conclusion of the modern philosopher is 
the starting point of Christian belief, the fact 
revealed in the first pages of the Bible. 

The fundamental obligation resting upon the 
Christian ministry of the Word then is that of 
bringing men to the sense of this fact, and to 
willingness to yield to it. That which became 
almost the catch-word of a recent evangelistic 
movement, and which was resented by some, 
and sneered at by others, " Get right with God," 
was really the brief statement of the profound- 
est secret of human life. 

Of this matter there are individual and social 
applications. Being right with God, means the 
realization of all the essential capacities of per- 
sonality. For a moment leaving out of view 
the question of sin altogether, we say that a 
human being living in true relation with God 
is one in whom no natural power is atrophied, 
no natural capacity abortive, no natural pur- 
pose unfulfilled. It is a little difficult to think 

1:6o THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 

of this matter thus in the realm of the ideal, 
because we have no knowledge of what the 
conditions would be if there had been no failure. 
The only hint we have of this is the one of 
primitive conditions in a garden. There how- 
ever the man failed. The only Man Who thus 
lived His» life in right relationship from first to 
last was the Man Who lived that life in the 
imperfect conditions, resulting from sin. Had 
the first Adam lived spiritually as did the last 
Adam, every power of his own being reaHzed 
and governed by the perfect will of God, all 
beneath him would have been perfected in being 
and use, through the sacred and delightful put- 
ting forth of his energy in work in fellowship 
with God. That is the golden goal, the far-off 
Divine event, to which the whole creation 
moves, as it sweeps round the cycles of the age 
of God. Today it is for every man to re- 
member that being right with God means that. 
The last Adam, our Lord and Savior, realized 
it to perfection in His own personal life. There 
were limitations, self-emptyings, imposed upon 
Him in His humanity, as the result of His living 
in a ruined world; but, so far as was possible 
within those conditions. His human life was full, 
rich, perfect. 

THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 1:6i 

In thinking of men today, it is necessary to 
speak of becoming right with God, before we can 
speak of being right with Him. Moreover there 
are senses in which that becoming will continue 
through life's pilgrimage. Becoming right with 
God then, means the realization of our capacities 
in spite of sin. This for men today is the 
fundamental personal obligation; but it is also 
the final impossibility, apart from the activity of 
the Divine Grace, whereby a man is born again, 
and thus enabled to come at last to the realiza- 
tion of his personality, in right relationship with 
God. 

In all such consideration, God's racial purpose 
must not be lost sight of. In the Divine pur- 
pose, humanity is not an aggregate of persons, 
living separate and independent lives. It is a 
family, a fellowship, through which He will 
accomplish ends, which we may not yet see or. 
know, but which are certainly far wider than 
this earth, and more extensive than that of 
which we speak as time. The fundamental 
obligation upon which the minister of the Word 
has to insist, and to the realization of which he 
has to point the way, includes the regulation of 
human life in its inter-relationships. This be- 
gins with the family circle, and stretches out 

1:62 THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 

through all the widening circles, until the whole 
race is included in its influence. This is at once 
the first ideal to be remembered, and the final 
result to be achieved. 

This brings us to the second phase of obli- 
gation, which we may describe as the proces- 
sionary, that is the obligation which is con- 
cerned with the processes by which the Divine 
purpose of bringing humanity into right rela- 
tionship with Himself may be accomplished. 

Inclusively we may say that it is, for this 
age, that of creating and conditioning a society, 
in which that rightness of relationship is real- 
ized and revealed. It will at once be seen that 
this is an exact description of the very purpose 
for which the Church of God exists in this 
world. The Church is the House of God, the 
Church of the living God, and as such, she is the 
pillar and ground of the Truth; that is, she is 
the instrument through which the light of truth 
shines upon the world. She is to be the ex- 
ample, and thus the witness, to the possibility 
of failing men being made right with God, and 
so of finding their way into right relationship 
among themselves. 

Here also, necessarily, the obligation begins 
with the individual, and proceeds to the so- 

THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 163 

ciety. All the members of the society must be 
those who know God, and so are at perfect rest. 
They must be those who are in fellowship with 
God, and so are at ceaseless work. Therefore 
those who constitute the membership of the 
Society, the Church, the holy Nation, must be 
those who are redeemed from the pollution and 
paralysis of sin; and who share the life of God, 
through Him Who came to give men life, and 
that more abundantly. 

Again, the mere gathering together of indi- 
viduals, by the multiplying of the number of 
such, is not enough. These must be trained 
into all the experience of such submission to the 
one Lord, as shall result in the manifestation of 
the glorious liberty of the Kingdom of God. 

This whole matter of the obligation as to 
the process is of the utmost importance, and 
cannot be overstated. The principle involved 
is that the Word of God can only be appre- 
hended of men as it is incarnate. That is the 
reason of the Incarnation. It was only when 
the Word became flesh, and dwelt among men, 
that they beheld His glory, or came to a true 
apprehension of its message. It was when the 
Lord opened the understanding of His disciples 
after Pentecost, by showing the relation of their 

1:64 THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 

sacred Writings to Himself, that they under- 
stood the Scriptures. The value of the New 
Testament is that it creates a consciousness of 
Christ, which, flashing back upon the writings, 
illuminates them. The most powerful and pre- 
vailing exposition of these writings is never 
that of written or spoken interpretation. It is 
that of living witness. In proportion as the 
Christ of the New Testament is formed in in- 
dividual souls, and manifested through the com- 
munity sharing His life, is He able to carry for- 
ward the purpose of His heart, and lead other 
men into right relationship with God, and so to 
exhibit in human history the real glory of the 
Divine ideal for humanity. The strength of the 
Divine Society is the strength of the Divine 
Witness; and the strength of the Divine Wit- 
ness is the process of the Divine Purpose and 
Work. 

If the first obligation be that man be right 
with God; and the obligation as to processes 
be that a Society exist in which that Tightness 
is realized and revealed; it follows that the 
ultimate obligation is concerned with the whole 
world. It may be expressed in the words of 
our Lord Himself in His intercessory prayer, 
when praying for the unity of His Church He 

THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 165 

said, ** That the world may believe," and " that 
the world may know " (John 17:21, 23). 

This is the unchanging purpose of God, and 
it is a purpose which means the perfect meet- 
ing of the world's need, in and through man. 
The word which our Lord employed in each 
case was the inclusive word kosnibs, showing 
that while His work was preeminently on 
behalf of man, it would operate through man 
on behalf of the whole creation. That phrase 
'' the whole creation " is Paul's equivalent for 
kds7?tos in the Roman letter, when he writes of 
its groaning and waiting for the revealing of the 
sons of God. It has been for the meeting of 
this widest need that God has ever acted in His 
Self-revelation, whether in the divers portions 
spoken in times past through the prophets, or 
through the final speech through the Son in 
these days. Only as the world is kept in view, 
and God's purpose is kept in mind, will the 
Word of God in any form remain quick and 
powerful. In this matter, no man and no com- 
munity can long eat their morsel alone. 

If we consider this world purpose a little 
more fully as expressed in these simple and yet 
sublime words of our Lord, we shall discover 
how it exactly meets human need as we dis- 

1:66 THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 

covered it when dealing with the unchanged 
conditions. Then we said that there persists in 
human history and experience a twofold spir- 
itual fact, which we described as, The Quest 
for Truth, and The Sense of Sin. Our Lord's 
words indicate the Divine purpose in each of 
these, but in the other order. The sense of sin 
is dealt with through belief; the quest for Truth 
is answered through knowledge. This is the 
necessary order in human experience, for man 
can only come into knowledge in its fullness, as 
sin is put away. 

The sense of sin is, as we have seen, a sense 
of pollution and of paralysis. The word of the 
Gospel is a word that promises forgiveness and 
life. That in each case is a promise that is only 
possible of belief if it comes from God. When 
the critics of our Lord said, '' No man can for- 
give sins save God only," they said what was 
perfectly true. When our Lord claimed that 
the gift of life must be a gift of God, He claimed 
what none can dispute. The question then for 
man is as to whether He Who brought this mes- 
sage was sent by God. To bring the world to 
that belief is the ultimate purpose of God; for 
by that faith men may have the sense of for- 
giveness, and the experience of life, full and 

THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 167 

forceful. The only sin for which there is no 
forgiveness, and which is an age-abiding sin, is 
that of refusing to believe on Him Whom the 
Father hath sent. To this His words bear wit- 
ness, " Of sin, because they believe not on Me." 
The quest for Truth is a demand for knowl- 
edge. It is a revolt against all authority and 
limitation which are not final and inevitable. 
It is, as we said, in the last analysis, the push of 
the soul through towards God. The claim of 
Jesus to be the Truth was His claim that in 
Him man may find God. This claim we know 
He constantly made, and with such emphasis 
and clarity that there can be no mistaking of 
His meaning. The question for men then is 
as to whether He Who made this claim was 
really from God. To bring the world to that 
knowledge is the ultimate purpose of God; for 
in that knowledge men will find the answer to 
all their questions about the meaning of life, its 
origin, its development, its destiny. To know 
God as He is revealed in His Son is to have 
found the secret of all knowledge. The growth 
into it may be gradual, as it surely is, but there 
are no locked doors, no barred gates. From 
that knowledge, and in its light, man may go 
forward to perfected intellectual attainment. 

1:68 THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 

To this also the words of our Lord bear wit- 
ness; "This is life eternal, that they should 
know Thee, the only true God, and Him Whom 
Thou didst send, even Jesus Christ " (John 
17:3). 

Involved in all these matters is the fact that 
the immediate obligation of the Church is that 
the Word should be preached to these ends; in 
order that man may be set right with God; in 
order that the Society may be created through 
which the nature of this rightness may be re- 
vealed; and in order that the world may be- 
lieve and know. 

It is hardly necessary for me to enter into 
any lengthy argument in this series of studies 
as to the importance of preaching in itself, as a 
method of making the Word known. That has 
not been our theme at all. It has been assumed 
from first to last. Nevertheless it is so vital a 
matter that we may at least tarry with it for a 
brief space. 

The whole subject is inclusively, and one may 
almost say exhaustively, dealt with in a passage 
in Paul's letter to the Romans (10:13-15), in 
which man's dependence on preaching is stated 
absolutely; the method and value are revealed; 
and the one essential to success in preaching is 

THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 169 

declared. So important is the passage that we 
will quote the whole of it: 

" Whosoever shall call upon the name of 
the Lord shall be saved. How then shall 
they call on Him in Whom they have not 
believed? And how shall they believe in 
Him Whom they have not heard? And 
how shall they hear without a preacher? 
And how shall they preach except they be 
sent?" 

In the opening affirmation the first necessity 
of man is suggested, and the way in which it 
is met is declared. The necessity is that of 
salvation. This is the dealing with the sense 
of sin and the quest for truth, which takes 
man through forgiveness and life into knowl- 
edge. The declaration is that men receive that 
salvation when they call upon the name of the 
Lord. 

This affirmation is followed by four ques- 
tions in sequence. The first shows that men 
will only call on the Lord as they believe in 
Him. Of course that qualifies the idea of call- 
ing on the name of the Lord, and shows that 
it is much more than an intellectual, or formal 
thing. It is that calling of Jesus Lord, which 
involves the surrender of the soul to Him, and 

1:70 THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 

which, in his Corinthian letter, Paul said no 
man could do but by the Holy Spirit. 

The next question shows that men cannot 
believe in some one whom, or of whom, they 
have not heard. It is interesting to observe in 
passing that the Revisers, both English and 
American, have rendered the question: " How 
shall they believe in Him Whom they have not 
heard? " instead of " How shall they believe in 
Him of Whom they have not heard?" The 
omission of the word " of " gives the idea a new 
force, suggesting that it is necessary to hear 
Him, and thus giving a special character to the 
work of preaching. In it, men must not only 
hear about the Lord, they must hear Him. 
Perhaps it is not safe to place too much 
emphasis on this fact, but to me it does suggest 
that preaching is only truly powerful when in 
it the Lord Himself is made real to the hearer, 
so that the Word is known as His own. 

Then comes the question which reveals the 
supreme importance of preaching, as it makes 
hearing the Lord dependent upon a preacher. 
The word for preacher and preaching here is 
the word kerussb, which signifies the work of 
the herald, the one who delivers the King's mes- 
sage with authority. 

THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 171 

The final question recognizing the impoi*- 
tance of preaching reveals the secret of success 
therein. It is that the preacher should be sent. 
The Christian preacher is called and sent by 
the fact that he is equipped for his work by 
his gift, of which we shall have more to say 
in our next study. 

The value of this passage for us now is its 
revelation of the importance of preaching, and 
the light it throws on the immediate obligation 
of those in the Ministry of the Word. 

The Word is to be proclaimed apostolically, 
as to its system, and balance and proportion; 
evangelistically, as tc its glorious news, and 
the claim it makes upon men concerning their 
salvation; prophetically, as to its bearing upon 
all human affairs; and pastorally, as to its sus- 
tenance of life, and the consequent growth of 
the soul into Him Who is the Head, and so 
into its true place in the Church. 

No change in the accidental conditions of 
human thought and circumstances has changed 
the essential facts of human nature. There- 
fore the obligation to preach the Word abides, 
and is as urgent as it ever was. To make men 
right with God; to edify the Christian Society; 
to reach the world with the Evangel, and to 

172 THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 

make it know the truth; these are the most im- 
portant things of human Hfe; and to do this 
work men are still given gifts by the Head of 
the Church, which it is at their peril they fail to 
employ. 

The value of the written Word for this work 
is patent; as also is its perfect suitability. There 
are times when we are tempted to wish that 
we found more explicit instructions in the 
presence of problems; but a more careful con- 
sideration will show how much better is the 
Divine way than the human. If in the Sacred 
Writings we had merely detailed applications of 
the Word of God to any one age, they would 
inevitably become obsolete with the passing of 
that age. Instead we have the statement of 
eternal truths and principles with illustrative 
applications. These things abide, and have new 
application in every age. Thus to quote the 
words of our Lord; " Every scribe who hath 
been made a disciple to the Kingdom of Heaven 
is like unto a man that is a householder, which 
bringeth forth out of his treasure things new 
and old." To do this is the abiding obligation 
of every man called to the Ministry of the 
Word. 

The realization of this obligation must surely 

THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 173 

settle very many questions which inevitably 
arise in the exercise of that sacred ministry. 
All we have said about the changed conditions 
in the midst of which we have to preach the 
Word today, recognizes that we do so in the 
midst of constantly new problems, and ever 
varying situations. 

The new vigor of philosophic inquiry is 
creating new attitudes of mind, and giving rise 
to new problems in every department of human 
knowledge. These are not merely interesting, 
they are of vital importance to human life. 
What then is the attitude of the preacher of the 
Word to be towards them? He must be con- 
scious of them. They will confront him in all 
his reading, both the more serious, and the 
ephemeral. He knows that his people are read- 
ing the same things, and are being influenced 
by them. Is he to refuse to consider them? 
By no means. His first duty is to do every- 
thing that lies in his power to make himself 
familiar with them. In this sense he must keep 
abreast of his times. But he will not change his 
message in order to bring it into conformity 
with these changing and fluctuating currents of 
human opinion. He will however give himself 
with new diligence to the study of his message. 

174 THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 

in order that he may apprehend and proclaim 
its bearing upon these movements of the human 
mind. 

In this process he need have no fear. The 
Word of God liveth and abideth for ever. It 
deals, not with the accidentals of thought, but 
with Truth essentially, and therefore has per- 
sistent and corrective bearing upon all human 
thought. The obligation of the minister of the 
Word is that of discovering and proclaiming 
that bearing. In the process he may have to 
change his mind, but never his message. That 
is to say he may discover that his apprehension 
of the message has been faulty. Then he must 
honestly and fearlessly say so. Consistency 
with yesterday's honest conviction may be of 
the essence of dishonesty. Loyalty to the au- 
thority of the Word in itself is of the essence of 
the obligation resting upon its minister. 

So also the very restlessness of men in all 
matters social and economic is creating new 
situations. These also are of supreme impor- 
tance to human well-being. Of these the 
preacher must, and ought, to be conscious. To 
live in ignorance of them is to be unable to bring 
to bear upon them the witness of the Word of 
God. That is his work. He is not called upon 

THE UNCHANGED OBLIGATION 175 

to join committees to discuss these situations, 
in order to help men to discover some solution 
of their own. He must be able to bring to bear 
upon their discussions the searchlight of the 
Divine Law, and the guidance of the Divine 
Will. That is his one obligation. 

Again we say he need have no fear. No sit- 
uation has arisen or can arise in human life, in- 
dividual, social, or national, which is outside 
the Divine interest; and within the compass of 
the Truth as it is revealed in Christ, there is 
explanation and direction, accepting and follow- 
ing which, men will be led into the highest con- 
ditions of life. The obligation which abides is 
a grave one, but it is most gracious, for it has 
to do with the things for which the world is 
waiting, and without which it can find neither 
righteousness, peace, nor joy. 

THE PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 

WHEN dealing with the fundamental 
conception of the ministry, and again 
in our last study, I referred to the 
fact that in each case the gift bestowed by the 
Head of the Church is potentially the necessary 
qualification for the doing of the work. This 
we must now consider a little more particularly, 
because it is vital in the consideration of the 
subject of the training of ministers. 

Training is for those who have received gifts. 
Apart from the gift, training can never prepare 
men for the Ministry of the Word. I often 
wish that our Protestant Churches, especially 
the Free Churches, had not lost the word Voca- 
tio7t, concerning the ministry; and that, in the 
sense in which it is employed in the Roman 
Church. Men cannot choose to become minis- 
ters of the Word. This calling is differentiated 
from all others, in this very fact. While, as we 

shall see presently, natural fitness is important, 

176 

PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 177 

it is not enough. While a man can, upon the 
ground of natural ability, decide whether he 
will be doctor, lawyer, or commercial man, he 
cannot so choose to become a minister. The 
words of our Lord are of abiding application, 
and must be taken in their fullest sense; " Ye 
have not chosen Me, but I have chosen yDu." 
So strongly do I feel upon this matter, that I 
never ask men to enter the Christian ministry. 
I have had occasion, in the exercise of the pas- 
toral office, to ask some man who seemed to me 
to have special fitness for the work of the min- 
istry, whether he had carefully considered what 
was his Lord's will for him in the matter. This, 
however, is quite a different thing from a gen- 
eral or particular appeal, which seems to sug- 
gest that men can choose the Ministry of the 
Word as a calling. The only men who can 
really enter this Ministry are those whom the 
Lord chooses, calls, and equips, by the bestow- 
ment of gifts according to the wisdom of His 
will. 

In considering this initial subject of gifts, 
there are two elements which must be recog- 
nized; and which we may describe as the super- 
natural and the natural. I confess this is a dis- 
tinction which ultimately I dislike, but it has its 

178 PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 

use, and we will employ the terms in the gener- 
ally accepted sense. 

For the work of the Ministry of the Word the 
gift which we thus describe as supernatural is 
supreme. This is the gift which is definitely 
bestowed upon a man by the Head of the 
Church through the Spirit; and which gives 
him the equipment he needs for the exercise of 
that ministry as an Apostle, a Prophet, an 
Evangelist, or a Pastor and Teacher. 

In the Ephesian passage to which we have 
given attention in considering the different 
phases of the Ministry of the Word, we have 
the central declaration concerning this matter. 
From the passage let us take an extract, en- 
abling us to see that declaration in all its sim- 
pHcity; 

" When He ascended on high, He led cap- 
tivity captive, and gave gifts unto men.…
And He gave some, apostles; and some, 
prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, 
pastors and teachers " (Ephesians 4:8 and 11). 

That is the true sequence so far as this sub- 
ject of gifts is concerned. In this statement 
the twice repeated verb " gave ** (diddmi\ and 
the noun " gifts " {ddma\ are related, and refer 
to gifts in the simplest way, as a bestowment. 

/ 

PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 179 

the emphasis being upon the freedom of the 
gift. The word "gift" (dbr^a) in a previous 
verse, " the measure of the gift of Christ " 
(ver. 7) also means a gratuity, but in use carries 
the thought of a sacrifice or offering. Nov^^ the 
whole context shows that these gifts for the ex- 
ercise of the Ministry of the Word are freely 
bestowed by the Head of the Church, in virtue 
of His victorious ascension, to the place of full 
and final authority; an ascension made possible 
by His descent into the lower parts of the earth, 
and all He accomplished there. Tht gifts then 
are bestowed by infinite grace, and absolute au- 
thority. 

There is, however, another New Testament 
word which we must consider if we are to ap- 
prehend the full value of these gifts. It is the 
word charisma. This is the word employed by 
Paul in his Corinthian letter when dealing with 
the same subject. He also used it in his Roman 
letter, and in writing to Timothy about the work 
of the ministry. Peter also used it once (1 Pet. 
4:10). This is the only occurrence of the word 
in the New Testament outside the writings of 
Paul. Thayer clearly sets forth what he calls 
" the technical Pauline sense " of the term in 
these words; 

1:8o PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 

" Charismata (gifts) denote extraordinary 
powers, distinguishing certain Christians, 
and enabling them to serve the Church of 
Christ, the reception of which is due to the 
power of Divine Grace operating in their 
souls by the Holy Spirit." 

That definition of course applies to other gifts 
than those bestowed for the ministry of the 
Word, but it certainly includes them. Thus a 
gift is a bestowment of grace, which is an en- 
dowment, a qualification, a faculty. In the pos- 
session of such a gift a man is potentially pre- 
pared for the exercise of a function. Apart from 
its possession he cannot do the work for which 
it is the equipment. 

The second element is that which we may 
describe as natural, although natural gifts are 
also supernatural in that they are Divinely im- 
planted. Whatever special natural capacity or 
aptitude a man has, he possesses because God 
the Father of spirits gave it to him in his crea- 
tion. These natural gifts always constitute the 
instruments of supernatural gifts in the econ- 
omy of God. 

The gift of the Apostle is bestowed upon men 
of very varied mental powers, but upon men 
who are supremely men of thought, capable of 

PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 1:8i 

analytic, synthetic approach to truth. Hence 
the abiding value of the apostolic gift is that 
Truth ever needs setting forth in proper bal- 
ance and proportion; in every new age of hu- 
man thinking, it demands the true terms of ex- 
pression in order to accurate apprehension. 
Here is the work of Translators and Theolo- 
gians. 

The gift of the Prophet is bestowed upon 
men of naturally statesmanlike outlook, and of 
clear powers of speech. Thus the constant 
value of the prophetic gift is that Truth ever 
demands application to all the new circum- 
stances of human life as they arise. 

The gift of the Evangelist is bestowed upon 
men who naturally are possessed of the power 
of speech and of persuasion. The persistent 
value of the evangelistic gift is that under all 
circumstances, and to all classes of men, the call 
of the Gospel needs to have utterance. 

The gift of the Pastor and Teacher is be- 
stowed upon men w o supremely have aptitude 
for teaching, and arc full of patience. The per- 
petual value of the pastoral and didactic gift is 
that as men and women are brought into the 
Christian experience, they need training and 
guidance. 

1:82 PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 

All this I hold most strongly. A great deal 
that has been said about a gift bestowed making 
a man a preacher who had no natural ability, is 
sheer nonsense. God's natural and spiritual 
worlds are not so out of joint. Nevertheless 
the final truth is that no natural ability qualifies 
a man for the work of the Ministry of the Word, 
apart from the bestowment of a gift of grace 
which is a spiritual qualification. There can be 
no training of the minister until that gift is 
received. 

It may be well at once to say that the con- 
sciousness of the reception of a gift, that is of a 
call to the ministry, may come in many ways, 
and may vary in the most divers manners. To 
one man it comes suddenly, like the flash of the 
lightning, the peal of a trumpet. To others it 
comes slowly, like the dawn creeping over the 
hills, the whisper of a distant voice. • To some 
it comes as a great joy, filling the soul with 
hope and ecstasy. To others it comes through 
travail, and is almost a sorrow and a pain. One 
is at once filled with the sense of confidence and 
strength; another trembles and shrinks, and is 
conscious only of appalling weakness. 

These different experiences are natural, and 
are largely due to temperament. The spiritual 

PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 183 

fact is the certainty, from which no man can 
escape who has received the gift, and felt its 
sacred heat. Until men have the most pro- 
found conviction and certainty in this matter, 
no training of them should be attempted. It 
is here that the importance and value of the 
Church's recognition is first manifested. I do 
not think any Theological College or Seminary 
ought to receive a man for training whose per- 
sonal sense of a call is not reinforced by the 
recognition and endorsement of the Church. 

Necessarily this opens a wide subject, and 
one which it is not within the province of these 
lectures to deal with, that namely of the organ- 
ism of the Christian Church, and its mainte- 
nance in full strength. Much of our modern 
Church life lacks the experience of fellowship to 
so large a degree — even when the theory is ac- 
knowledged — that it cannot exercise this func- 
tion of cooperation in the work of setting men 
apart to the work of the ministry. The man 
who receives the Divine call may be compara- 
tively, and indeed often completely, unknown 
to the majority of those who constitute the 
membership. It is impossible therefore for 
them to come to anything like spiritual conclu- 
sion on the subject. Moreover tdo often, even 

1:84 PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 

when the man is known, our modern methods of 
work, and the organizations connected there- 
with, afford no opportunity for our young men 
to exercise their gift under the sympathetic ob- 
servation of the Church. Both these facts work 
disadvantageously — to put it no more strongly 
— in the interest of the ministry. Every local 
church, especially, should constitute a true fel- 
lowship, in which the life of the whole is 
strengthened by the knowledge of each, and 
contribution in prayer and converse is made by 
all to each, and by each to all. Every church 
should moreover have some training ground for 
its young people in Christian speech, and that, 
not relegated to a society separated from the 
main currents of its life, but nurtured in the 
very midst thereof. 

All this being granted, we may now consider 
how those men who have received one of these 
gifts are to be trained. Neither the man him- 
self, nor they who are responsible for his train- 
ing may, at first, have any definite conviction as 
to the particular nature of the gift. That will 
emerge in the course of training, and should 
qualify the later stages especially. At times a 
man from the beginning is conscious of the 
peculiar gift with which he is entrusted. When 

PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 185 

that is so, training should be from the beginning 
with a view to its development. These particu- 
lar applications however must be left. It is not 
a difficult task. The nature of the gift suggests 
the special treatment necessary for its cultiva- 
tion in each case. I propose to deal with the 
subject in the most general way. 

There are four phases of training which must 
be kept in mind, and I shall define them in gen- 
eral terms as. Academical, Theological, Practi- 
cal, and Spiritual. Let me at once say that the 
first two should be taken in the order named, 
first the academical, and then the theological; 
while the last two, the practical and spiritual, 
should run concurrently through all the course. 

The training which I have called academical 
is really the training of the mind. It is that 
which, in our present University system of edu- 
cation, we should describe as the Arts Course. 
This should, in my view, be of the widest na- 
ture, and as thorough as possible. The value 
of this is twofold. First, and again in my view, 
principally, is the fact that such a course of 
mental discipline trains and perfects the instru- 
ment. There is nothing more important than 
that men should be taught to think for them- 
selves, and to think their way through. Now I 

1:86 PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 

affirm it as my strong conviction, that men do 
not do either the one or the other without 
serious discipHne. In the realm of Christian 
preaching, it is as true as in any other, that evil 
is wrought by want of thought as well as want 
of heart. It must be remembered that the 
Word of God is no small matter. We may do 
incalculable harm by talking about the simple 
Gospel. There is a simplicity in the Gospel as 
there is in Christ, from which we do well that 
we do not depart. But it is not the simplicity 
of superficiality. There are the profoundest 
depths in the Truth, as there are in Him, in 
Whom it has pleased the. Father that all the 
fullness of the Godhead should dwell corpo- 
really; and we equally do well not to forget this 
fact. To deal with these matters, it is of the 
greatest value that the mind should in itself be 
perfectly trained, in order that in its approach 
to the Truth, it may do no bungling work. It 
is true that the Apostle is called upon to make 
Truth clear to others; the Prophet to make its 
application living; the Evangelist to make its 
first message simple; the Pastor and Teacher 
to make it available to the youngest and weak- 
est disciple; but the more complete the knowl- 
edge of the preacher in each case, the more sue- 

PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 187 

cessful will he be in accomplishing this purpose. 
The completeness of the preacher's knowledge 
depends to a large extent on the perfecting of 
the instrument of his mind. Hence the first 
value of academic training. 

The second value is that of the acquisition of 
knowledge in itself. Nothing is without some 
value in the work of preaching. The man who, 
in the finest sense of the word, is- a well-read 
man, is thereby greatly enriched for the work of 
the ministry; and that for two reasons. First, 
because over the whole realm of knowledge 
Christ is King, and whatever department a man 
knows, is in itself a part of the territory over 
which His sway extends. Secondly, because in 
all realms of knowledge illustrations may be 
gathered which are of the utmost force in the 
elucidation and application of the Truth he has 
to proclaim. Of course the realm of knowledge 
is so vast that no one man in a lifetime can cover 
the whole of it; and men preparing for the 
ministry have a specific subject on which to 
specialize. Therefore selections must be made 
in the interest of the special work. 

Generally speaking I should urge that the 
study of language should be kept to the front; 
especially those languages in which the Sacred 

1:88 PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 

Scriptures were written. A careful and thor- 
ough study of English, the tongue in which 
preaching is to be done, is of the greatest im- 
portance. The poor Anglo-Saxon of some 
Hebrew and Greek scholars is deplorable. 

Then all history is of enormous value. It is 
not without profound significance that the He- 
brews included the Historic books in the class 
of Prophetic writings. They understood first, 
the truth about prophecy, that it is the speaking 
forth of the Word of the Lord supremely, and 
that the predictive element is only one part of 
it. Then, they realized that the true value of 
History is created by the fact that it reveals the 
way of the Divine government in the past, and 
so teaches men fundamental things concerning 
their present actions. This is as true of history 
outside the Biblical Literature as of that within, 
for as Paul said on Mars Hill, God " made of 
one every nation of men for to dwell on all 
the face of the earth, having determined their 
appointed seasons, and the bounds of their 
habitation." Hence the importance of this 
study. 

The importance of the study of human sys- 
tems of philosophy cannot be overestimated. 
This I need not stay to emphasize in view of 

PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 189 

what we have already said concerning it in a 
previous lecture. 

The science of psychology is perhaps only yet 
in its infancy, but the infant is singularly well 
nourished, and full of strength, and as it seems 
to me, those called to the Ministry of the Word 
cannot afford to neglect it. I do not suggest 
that they are to be experts in the science, or 
that they will be called to lecture on it; but an 
understanding of the mind of man, so far as it 
is known, must be of untold value to those who 
have to deal with the Truth. It is unanimously 
conceded that such knowledge is important in 
educational work. It is not enough to know 
the subject to be taught. It is necessary to 
know the mind of those to be taught. 

Personally, moreover, I would compel every 
man who is going to preach to take a course 
in the theory and practice of pedagogy, and of 
elocution. The value of knowing how to im- 
part knowledge, which is of the very essence 
of real teaching, is fundamental to the work 
of proclaiming the Truth, and that in every 
phase of the work of the Ministry. A man 
may be able to write, and to recite a treatise, 
and such work is excellent; but it is of very 
much greater service to men and to the cause 

igo PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 

of Christ, if he be able so to impart the knowl- 
edge that others may receive it. It may be that 
preaching which is of this nature may lack 
something of literary finish, but I would sacri- 
fice a good deal in the interests of clarity. Elo- 
cution in this regard is not to be neglected. 
Anything strained, artificial, theatrical, is to be 
sedulously avoided; but articulation, enuncia- 
tion, light and shade, should be as sedulously 
cultivated. 

For my illustrations I am prepared to 
apologize, but not for my main contention that 
the minister of the Word cannot know too 
much, nor have too thorough a training 
academically. 

All this however is preliminary; and because 
it is preliminary my conviction is that it ought 
to be taken first in order of time. Wherever 
possible I would prevent any man approaching 
the study of Systematic Theology until his 
academic training was complete. It is my own 
conviction that to bring a half-trained mind, or 
a mind in process of training, to that study is a 
grave mistake, and issues in those hasty judg- 
ments which are too often mistaken for 
advanced thought. Necessarily throughout the 
whole of this academic training, the student will 

PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 191 

continue his reading and diligent study of the 
Scriptures themselves. This for devotional 
purposes, and also to give him the grounding in 
knowledge of them, w^hich v^ill be of value v^hen 
he begins the more systematic study of The- 
ology. 

The mind having been thus trained in the 
academic course, the great v^ork may begin, 
that namely of the instruction of the trained 
mind in its special subject, which we now define 
by the general term Theology. To that term 
I have no objection, providing always that we 
remember that it connotes more than it means 
philologically. Technically, Theology is the 
science of God, and that is the knowledge of 
God. According to our Lord Himself this is 
life eternal. It is therefore the Word of God in 
all its fullness. 

With any particular method or system of 
Theology I have nothing whatever to do now, 
and I am not proposing to tarry here, save to 
insist upon one or two fundamental matters. 
The first is that of the absolute necessity for 
the training of every man who enters the min- 
istry in Theology in this widest sense. Here a 
man must do more than specialize in a depart- 
ment. He must see the whole, so as to realize 

192 PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 

the value of the parts. Nothing is more dan- 
gerous than the over-emphasis of a truth. 
Every phase of Truth is not only completed by, 
it is corrected by, every other phase. George 
Herbert's v^^ords about the Bible may be quoted 
here as most appropriate to the subject of The- 
ology; 

" O that I knew how all thy lights combine. 
And the configurations of their glory! 
Seeing not only how each verse doth shine. 
But all the constellations of the story." 

There have been many systems of Theology. 
They are still emerging. Doubtless there will 
be many more. These are all valuable— little 
systems, that have their day, and cease to be. 
They are valuable, both in their day, and in 
their ceasing to be; as they help men to imme- 
diate understanding, and then make way for 
new statements adapted to the new age. The 
one System that is for every successive day, and 
that does not cease to be, is that which we have 
in the Bible. 

Fundamentally then theological training is 
Biblical, and to the Bible Literature itself most 
earnest attention must be given. It should 
have the supreme place in theological training. 
Let the method with all human systems be ec- 

PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 193 

lectic. The more of these a man can examine 
in his course the better, providing that he al- 
lows them to be tested by the Biblical standard, 
and does not attempt to crowd the Biblical sys- 
tem into their narrow formulae. That is all I 
desire to say on that subject. 

We now come to the two phases of training 
that should be conterminous with the whole 
course, those namely which are practical and 
spiritual. 

From the beginning of their training, men 
called to the exercise of the ministry of the 
Word should have practice in preaching under 
wise and sympathetic oversight. It is well also 
if he can have pastoral practice, also under 
apostolic oversight. It may be objected that 
the plea I have urged for the academic course 
having the first period in training, is against 
this idea, because the student has no theological 
training. To that I should reply; first, that 
every man who is a Christian believer, and is 
conscious of the call to preach, has already some 
knowledge of the Word; and secondly, that 
neither the man himself nor his congregation 
will expect that his preaching should be other 
than the simple statement of those things which 
he believes. I think no greater mistake can be 

194 PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 

made than to neglect preaching for a number of 
years. 

Here I propose to take the opportunity of 
protesting with all the force of the strongest 
conviction against the ordinary sermon-class, in 
which a man is called upon to preach before his 
fellow students and members of the faculty. 
The whole method cuts at the root of the true 
idea of preaching. The man prepares for his 
sermon-class, from an entirely wrong motive. 
His sermon will be criticized, sometimes kindly, 
sometimes brutally, from the lower standards 
of consideration. Its essential character of be- 
ing a message of God to men cannot be dealt 
with in a sermon-class. It is above and beyond 
criticism. Moreover what man can preach to 
such an audience? Of course he does not at- 
tempt to do so. He preaches before them, and 
preaching before men is not preaching in the 
Biblical sense. No; this is not the practice for 
which I plead. Let these men in training be 
sent out two by two into the villages, into the 
towns, especially to difficult places; and let 
them go to preach the Truth as they know it, to 
the people. Let the two be encouraged to go 
in manly, sane, and yet distinctly spiritual fel- 
lowship; let them go to help each other, not to 

PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 195 

manifest their cleverness either in the preach- 
ing, or in the criticism. Then they will do two 
things at once. They will help those to whom 
they go, and they will grow in the ability to deal 
with men as they preach. 

During the whole course of training, such 
preaching should be under the guidance of 
competent men, both as to its matter and its 
method. As to the matter, written sermons 
should be submitted, such sermons as have ac- 
tually been preached, that the Teacher may 
show the faults of reasoning, or the failures of 
illustrations; or, on the other hand, encourage 
evident ability in certain directions, as it mani- 
fests itself. These men should be encouraged 
to preach from notes, and these notes should be 
submitted for the same kind of revision. As to 
the method, the Professor of Homiletics would 
gain much of real influence if in turn he was the 
other one of the two, and so heard the man him- 
self preach. Let him walk home with the stu- 
dent, or get him into his study for a quiet talk 
afterwards, and point out the failures and excel- 
lencies which he observed. We have sadly neg- 
lected the true practical training of men for 
the work of preaching, and the neglect is being 
felt everywhere today. 

196 PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 

The final matter is that of spiritual training. 
In some senses this is supreme. The first ex- 
perience of the man knowing that he is called to 
the ministry of the Word, is inevitably that of 
the grandeur and solemnity of the work. He 
faces it with a sense of joy, mingled with fear 
and trembling. 

The perils of the period of training are very 
definite. Inevitably the necessary work of crit- 
ical investigation will seem to challenge every- 
thing that he has held most sacred. From this 
there can be no escape, and I am inclined to say 
that the man who does escape it, misses one of 
the surest methods to the finding of a firmer 
and larger faith. Nevertheless the process is a 
very searching one. 

Then there is the special peril of the commu-^ 
nity of purpose and of faith. Christian men in 
other walks of life have the advantage of the 
friction caused by daily contact with those who 
are not Christians. Students for the ministry, 
for a period, largely lack this. Very often too, 
a sane dread of anything that savors of cant 
and unreality will prevent that spiritual inter- 
course which is really necessary to the develop- 
ment of strong spiritual life. There is also the 
peril of the first gaining of new knowledge. A 

PREPARATION OF THE MINISTRY 197 

man is always at least threatened with the vain 
imagination that he knows much, when really 
he has hardly found out how ignorant he is. 

All these things, and many others peculiar to 
the period of training, can only be guarded 
against by the careful cultivation of the habits 
of the truly religious life. Habits I say, re- 
membering that they have to be formed, as cer- 
tainly as do evil habits. Theological students 
need pastoral oversight as surely as do other 
Christian people, and of a very special kind. 

Happy are the men who, called to the Minis- 
try, have the privilege of a full and careful train- 
ing; and highly privileged are those to whom 
the sacred work is committed. 

THE EXERCISE OF THE VOCATION 

THE day when a man stands girded at 
the threshold of his actual work in the 
ministry of the Word, is a day full of 
mystic wonder. He is conscious of strange 
lights and shadows, of joy and of fear, of hope 
and almost of despair. The opportunities of 
service are seen to be at once so vast, and so full 
of solemnity, that he is seized with a sense of 
inability, and of unworthiness. He feels in his 
own soul what the Apostle undoubtedly felt as 
he inquired; "Who is sufficient for these 
things?" Nevertheless he is conscious anew 
of the iact that his call was from God, and that 
Divine resources are ever at the disposal of 
those called to Divine service; and so a sense of 
dependence is also a sense of confidence. These 
apparently conflicting emotions fill the soul 
with a great and reverent awe. 

Perhaps the most common disaster in min- 
198 

EXERCISE OF THE VOCATION 199 

isterial life is the loss of this very sense of awe. 
The glory passes; the light becomes dim; the 
wonder ceases; and work becomes routine, and 
preaching a drudgery. How is this to be obvi- 
ated, and the first glory maintained undimmed? 
This is really a great question, demanding seri- 
ous consideration. I propose to deal with it so 
far as I am able strictly from the positive side. 
There are four matters which seem to me to be 
of paramount importance in the exercise of the 
vocation of the ministry of the Word. They 
are; first, the prayerful culture of the spiritual 
life; secondly, the persistent study of the Word; 
thirdly, the practice of purposeful preaching; 
and finally, the patient shepherding of the flock. 

Wherever a man gives himself with all his 
heart and mind and will to these things, the 
glad surprise and mystic glory of his work will 
never cease. Dark days, and weary ways, he 
will certainly know; but so also did his Lord. 
Nevertheless the light for Him never failed, and 
all the tiresome ways led onward to the glori- 
ous goal. So also will it be with those whom 
He calls, sends, accompanies, if they are true to 
Him and to His service. Of these things then 
let us think. 

The matter of first importance is that of the 

200 EXERCISE OF THE VOCATION 

culture of the spiritual life, or to put it in an- 
other way, the maintenance of life in the Spirit. 
The minister of the Word must ever remember 
that his one business is to deal with spiritual 
things. This by no means suggests that he is 
to separate spiritual truth and being from 
things mental and material, as though they 
were in some sense abstractions, having no liv- 
ing relation with these matters. But it is of 
absolute urgency in order to the exercise of his 
true function, that he should remember that he 
is not called and equipped by the heavenly gift 
for dealing with the mental and the material, 
apart from the spiritual. His one business in 
the realm of thought is to bring to bear upon it 
the light of the eternal Wisdom; and his one re- 
sponsibility in the realm of action is to seek to 
inspire it with spiritual principle and passion. 
The work of the Christian preacher is that of 
bringing to bear upon human words, opinions, 
teachings, the correcting and guiding light of 
the Word of the living God. The work of the 
Christian preacher is that of relating all human 
action, in whatever realm, to the Divine pur- 
pose and enterprise, in order that it may be 
true, and strong, and lasting. 

It follows that a man called to be the instru- 

EXERCISE OF THE VOCATION 201 

ment of such service must himself Hve in the 
spiritual atmosphere. This means that he must 
practice the presence of God. This is much 
more than accepting the theory of the Divine 
immanence. It is the persistent and perpetual 
relating of all personal thought and action to 
that Presence. This demands, first of all, the 
exercise of the spiritual faculties. Inquiry must 
be made of God, as to w^hat the way and the will 
of God may be, with regard to everything, the 
great and the small, the small as earnestly as 
the great. Not only must there be inquiry, the 
spirit must be trained to wait and to listen. 
The haste that cannot wait on the Lord must 
be denied. If there is not time to seek the 
Lord, there is not time to do anything. The 
doing that begins without the discovery of the 
Divine will is indeed deadly. All this in turn 
calls for response to the demands which are 
made as the result of such inquiry and such 
waiting. There must be the yielding of the 
judgment, that is the renewing of the mind; 
the consent of the heart, that is the dedication 
of the aflFection; and implicit obedience, that is 
the yielding of the will. This life, actively in 
the spiritual world, must be resolute, and con- 
tinuous. No man can fulfill his ministry in spir- 

202 EXERCISE OF THE VOCATION 

itual things, save as he himself is Uving in right 
Telation with spiritual things. When the Word 
ceases to be a light, a fire, a joy to a man in his 
own life, searching, energizing, heartening him; 
his preaching of it becomes a weariness, a 
drudgery to his own soul, and utterly ineffective 
in the lives of others. 

Of true spiritual life for the minister of the 
Word, as for all others, there is a twofold condi- 
tion, and test, in the realm of the material. No 
divorce between the body and the spirit is pos- 
sible in this life. The body is the instrument of 
the spirit. No separation between ordinary 
human afifairs, and the things of the spirit, is 
possible in this world. The things of everyday 
life are the opportunities of spiritual realization 
and expression. The condition for true per- 
sonal spirituality is bodily fitness. The test of 
spirituality is the use a man makes of his body. 
Not by its destruction does he demonstrate his 
spiritual attainment, but by its possession and 
use. The opportunities for spiritual service are 
the commonplaces of everyday life. The test 
of spirituality is the use a man makes of these 
opportunities. Not by escape from them does 
he demonstrate his spirituality, but by their 
sanctification and beautifying. To minister the 

EXERCISE OF THE VOCATION 203 

Word so as to produce these results in the Hves 
of others must be to live by the Word in this 
very sense. No minister of the Word can neg- 
lect the habits of the spiritual life vi^ithout dis- 
aster to his ov^n soul, and to his w^ork therefore. 
The second matter of importance is that of 
the persistent study of the Word on the part of 
the minister. This seems so obvious as to need 
no argument, and yet I fear that it is at this 
point that very many have sadly failed. In the 
years of preparation much has been done, in the 
very necessity of the case; and all that has been 
done is of the greatest value. Indeed the real 
value of the technical w^ork of these years will 
only now begin to be known. Nevertheless all 
this has been preparatory. By that I do not 
mean preparatory to preaching merely, though 
of course that is true. I mean preparatory to 
that particular study of the Word which must 
be undertaken, as the definite work of the min- 
istry is taken up. The minister will now turn 
to the Word in the company of his work, as he 
goes to his work in the company of the Word. 
That is to say, he will not now go to his Bible 
in order to discover its teaching in the abstract 
merely. He will turn to it, burdened with the 
needs, the problems, yes, and the agonies of 

204 EXERCISE OF THE VOCATION 

men; in order to seek its light upon these 
things, so that his ministry may be a service of 
direction, of healing, of help. To sit down in 
happy seclusion, separated from all men and 
matters, in order to know the Scriptures, is one 
thing, and a great and joyful thing. It is quite 
another matter to go into seclusion, carrying in 
with you the sins and sorrows of human souls 
in order to find the Divine salvation and com- 
fort. Happy indeed is the man who has had a 
thorough training in the former method. That 
will be of inestimable value now. But he can- 
not wholly depend on it. He must; back to 
a yet more diligent devotion to stuu3. Using 
our great phrase, " The Word of God," as re- 
ferring to the Sacred Writings, I declare that 
its deepest tones are never heard, its most won- 
derful revelation is never known, until great 
human need appeals to it. The minister of the 
Word must make that appeal vicariously, for 
those to whom he is called upon to minister. 

Who that has been long in the work has not 
known the travail and the triumph of this expe- 
rience? It is an awful and a glorious thing to 
be made the bearer of the sin, the shame, the 
suflFering of human souls; to carry these things 
into the light of the Divine revelation; to hear 

EXERCISE OF THE VOCATION 205 

its message of power, of hope, of comfort; and 
then to minister to those in need. The man 
who does not so continue to be a student of 
the Word will fail in the exercise of his min- 
istry, however talented he may be in other 
ways. 

Here then is a peril which confronts a man as 
he leaves his college and commences his work. 
We are apt to think that in the days of prepara- 
tion we have done our work, and that we know 
our Bibles. We are tempted to turn to human 
opinions, even to be enamored of that illusory, 
ephemeral, anemic thing called " current 
thought." Let us guard against the tempta- 
tion from the very beginning, and continuously. 
In the comparatively small compass of our 
Bibles we shall find all that the human soul 
needs. While we may have much help from 
other literature in illustration and interpreta- 
tion, let us never forget that of all other writ- 
ings in comparison with the Bible it may be 
said, 

" These are but broken lights of Thee." 

Therefore let us be diligent students of the 
Word. 

It is not the purpose of these lectures to give 

2o6 EXERCISE OF THE VOCATION 

anything like technical details, but I may at 
least give a general suggestion as to a minis- 
ter's method. First, let his library be carefully 
chosen, and let it be good, rather than large. 
To any man beginning the work of library 
building I should say, let these words guide 
you, Exegesis, Exposition, Everything. Keep that 
order. Never make the worst blunder of all, 
that of getting everything first. Neither make 
perhaps the more common mistake of putting 
exposition in the place of exegesis. The former is 
at best very often no more than the opinions 
of others. The latter will, in the proportion in 
which it is really scholarly, help you to know 
what the Word really says. 

Then I would urge every minister as he com- 
mences his actual work to get a new Bible, and 
begin all over again, giving special attention to 
two matters. First, let him turn to the books 
he thinks he knows best, in order to find how 
much there is that he had not discovered. 
Then let him resolutely turn to the parts least 
known, most neglected, determined to face and 
to know them. As I have said before, for my 
illustrations I apologize, but not for my conten- 
tion. No man can be a successful minister of 
the Word — and I use the word successful in its 

EXERCISE OF THE VOCATION 207 

best sense — who ceases to be a student of the 
Word. Let me add that no man need fear that 
he will exhaust its treasures. 

The third matter of importance is that of pur- 
poseful preaching. All preaching, whether 
apostolic, prophetic, evangelistic, or pastoral, 
has one aim; that namely of the capture of the 
central citadel of Mansoul, the will. The intel- 
lect and the emotions are highways of approach, 
and both should be employed. The one thing 
of which we need to be constantly reminding 
ourselves, is that we have never accomplished 
the real end of preaching until we have reached 
the will, and constrained it towards the choices 
which are in harmony with the Truth which we 
declare. I say " constrained it " towards these 
choices, rather than " compelled it " to them, for 
this latter we can never do. The former we 
may, and it is our one business to do so. To 
instruct the intelligence is necessary, but it is a 
means to an end, rather than an end. The last 
word of the preacher along these lines is, " If 
ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do 
them.'* It is in order to the doing of the will 
of God that His will is to be made known. To 
touch and move the emotions is perfectly 
proper, but it also is a means to an end, rather 

2o8 EXERCISE OF THE VOCATION 

than an end. The last word of the preacher 
along these lines must ever be that of the Lord, 
" If ye love Me ye w^ill keep My command- 
ments." That man is indeed happy, who, him- 
self instructed in the things of God, and inspired 
by the love of God, can storm the citadel of 
human will, along the avenues of intelligence 
and emotion, capturing it for his Lord, and con- 
straining it to obedience to His Word. 

The minister of the Word has two questions 
which he must always ask himself concerning 
his preaching; first, What is the need I am to 
address? Secondly, What is the message I am 
to deliver? The answer to the first is known 
fundamentally and essentially. He always 
speaks to the deepest things in human life, the 
things of the spirit, the things that are of abid- 
ing importance, and which touch and influence 
finally all the secondary things. But these 
things have an almost infinite variety of inci- 
dental expression; and the man who would 
preach the Word prevailingly to his fellow men 
must live among them; he must know the hu- 
man spirit as well as the Word of God. His 
business must be to know the need he ad- 
dresses. 

Knowing this need he must then seek his 

EXERCISE OF THE VOCATION 209 

message. Here again inclusively he is never at 
a loss. That by which man lives, in the deep- 
est of his life, is the Word of God. But the in- 
cidental application must be as varied as is the 
incidental expression; and he who would preach 
the Word prevailingly must live with the Word; 
he must know the Word of God as well as the 
human spirit. His business must be to know 
the remedy for the need he addresses. 

Besides these two, no other question is really 
important. The preacher is not to ask whether 
they will hear or whether they will forbear; al- 
though the passion of his soul must be to per- 
suade them to obey. He will never halt in the 
delivery of his message to inquire as to whether 
it is likely to be pleasant or disturbing. Neither 
of these is necessarily authoritative, and this the 
preacher should remember. To some tempera- 
ments there is always the temptation to think 
that the unpleasant is the true and the power- 
ful. Others are tempted to imagine that the 
restful is the only valuable note. Both ideas 
are equally false. The Word of God will some- 
times shake the very foundations, and disturb 
the spirit to its depths; while at others it will 
come as peace and quietness, calming all the 
storm into rest. The passing effects of the 

2IO EXERCISE OF THE VOCATION 

Word are nothing. The ultimate victory in 
the sanctification of men and women to the will 
of God is everything. 

The preacher therefore has always two su- 
preme duties in preaching, beyond the procla- 
mation of his message. They are those of ap- 
plication and appeal. The Word declared must 
be applied to the need as it is known. This 
must be done with knowledge and discretion; 
but it must be done, or the preaching may fail 
to realize its highest intention and purpose. 
Moreover he must appeal to the will, calling it 
to surrender in the name of the Lord. This 
appeal must be made with conviction as well as 
with passion. Passion characterized by un- 
reality is of no avail; it is worse than convic- 
tion without passion. Painted fire never burns. 
But conviction without passion often fails to 
reach its goal. Unlit fuel never burns. 

Let ministers of the Word preach the things 
of which they themselves know the power, and 
preach them with the passionate earnestness of 
which such things are worthy, and the ministry 
will be a constant triumph and a perpetual joy; 
even if it be also a constant travail, and per- 
petual fellowship with the sufferings of the 
Lord. 

EXERCISE OF THE VOCATION 211 

The final matter in the exercise of vocation 
is that of the patient shepherding of those who 
are gathered into the flock as the result of 
preaching. The word shepherding has applica- 
tion principally to the distinctly pastoral office, 
but the principles involved apply in each case. 
In apostolic ministry there is need for such de- 
tailed interpretation as may be necessary to 
meet the need of individual cases. In prophetic 
ministry, administration as well as application 
will constantly be called for. In evangelistic 
ministry, personal direction will inevitably be 
necessary. In each case much more than sur- 
face knowledge is demanded, both of the mes- 
sage and of the men to be instructed, guided, 
directed. 

I propose to confine myself to the more 
strictly pastoral phase. Here there must first 
be the perpetual feeding of the flock by the 
systematic teaching of the Word. The work 
of the Pastor in this regard is not completely 
done by preaching from isolated texts. It goes 
without saying that it is not done at all by 
preaching about topics, save as they are dealt 
with in the light of the Word. It is the busi- 
ness of the Pastor and Teacher to lead the peo- 
ple under his care in careful and intelligent 

212 EXERCISE OF THE VOCATION 

study of the Sacred Writings. Every Church 
should be a Bible School, a Bible College, and 
its minister should take oversight of all Biblical 
teaching, from the Primary Department of his 
Sunday School, through every grade, and up 
to the oldest members of the Church. Much of 
the detail work he must delegate to others, but 
nothing of it should be outside his knowledge 
and direction. His charge is to feed the lambs, 
and the sheep. 

I refrain from discussion of methods in detail, 
contenting myself with this statement of a 
broad principle, which I hold to be of great 
importance. 

Beyond this, however, the Pastor has a dou- 
ble duty. He must take oversight of the flock, 
and he must guide it. What John Ruskin said 
of the Bishops in Sesame and Lilies is true of all 
shepherds of the flock. If they do not know 
their people and their needs they are no 
bishops. Here is the true place of pastoral 
visitation. This however is a whole subject, 
and in some senses a separate one. I refer to 
it because it ought to have the closest relation 
to the ministry of the Word. It is by this 
method that the true Pastor discovers the needs 
of his people, and so knows how to bring forth 

EXERCISE OF THE VOCATION 213 

things new and old out of his treasury. It goes 
without saying that pastoral visitation is much 
more than calling at houses, drinking tea, and 
indulging in profitless conversation. 

His guidance of his flock is a sacred duty, 
also. Sometimes it is his duty to indicate a 
worthy line of conduct, even when his advice is 
not sought. This is not always easy; it is at 
times found to be unwelcome, even resented; 
but if he is Faithful to his duty it must be done, 
and it is wonderful how responsive the human 
soul is to such guidance. Such guidance is con- 
stantly sought, and the methods of private per- 
sonal interviews and correspondence are of 
great value in shepherding the sheep. 

There is yet another thing the Pastor may 
have to do. He may have to fight. There are 
still evil, wolfish interests, and human beings 
who prowl around the flock to destroy, and 
with such the shepherd is always at war. 

In view of all these responsibilities— which 
are privileges also because they are shared with 
the Good, the Great, the Chief Shepherd— how 
important it ever is that the Pastor should de- 
fine his spiritual relationship with his people 
clearly. He should see to it that he establish 
no relation with them, either political or social, 

214 EXERCISE OF THE VOCATION 

which would prevent his fulfillment in their lives 
of his high spiritual function. 

To realize this ideal of the exercise of the 
vocation of the ministry of the Word will give 
the minister no spare time. It will, however, 
demand recreative intervals, in which, escaping 
entirely from all the particular work of his sa- 
cred office, he finds renewal and recuperation. 
Such intervals should be marked ofif as sacred, 
and no pressure of work should be allowed to 
interfere. To say that is to have to add; 
" Lord, have mercy upon us, miserable of- 
fenders, and incline our hearts to keep this 
law." 

But again this conception as the goal of en- 
deavour will preserve the minister from any 
sense of failing interest. It will often almost 
burden him that his opportunities are so vast, 
never that they are narrow. With every pass- 
ing year, the Word to which he yields himself 
that he may give it to others, will grow in 
strength and beauty, and the joy of declaring it 
will be his strength as well as his duty. 

EPILOGUE 

IN our introductory study we considered the 
setting of the phrase which has constituted 
our Theme. In conclusion we return to 
that setting. In the statement of which the 
phrase is a part, we find two activities referred 
to, both of which are qualified by an attitude of 
mind, and a corresponding output of energy; 
" We will continue steadfastly in prayer, and 
in the ministry of the Word." The activities 
are those of " prayer " and " the ministry of 
the Word "; the attitude is that of *' continuing 
steadfastly." 

The attitude indicated was that of the whole 
Church. In the strangely mysterious days be- 
tween the ascension and Pentecost, they " con- 
tinued steadfastly in prayer." After Pentecost 
the Apostles and early disciples, together with 
those brought into the company through 
Peter's preaching, " continued steadfastly in the 
Apostles' teaching, and fellowship; in the 
breaking of bread, and the prayers." 

Now in the case of the Twelve the attitude 
215 

2i6 THE FIRST RESPONSIBILITY 

had special application to two matters, 
" Prayer," and *' The Ministry of the Word." 
This meant limitation; but such limitation as 
made for intensity in the direction indicated; 
and so limitation, in the interest of the whole 
fellowship of the Church, and of its mission in 
the world. All the other duties of the Fellow- 
ship were most sacred, but they were to be at- 
tended to by others. These men, in the spirit 
of continuing stedfastness, which was the spirit 
of all, were to do two things; they were to 
pray; and they were to serve the Word. 

Having completed our consideration of the 
ministry of the Word, we pause in conclusion 
to remember the work which is first named, 
that of Prayer. This work is thus first named, 
because it is preliminary; and it is connected, 
because it must be continuous. Nothing more 
is necessary in this connection than a most 
simple examination of the idea of continuing 
steadfastly in prayer. 

The word for prayer in this passage is at once 
the most common in use, and the most inclusive 
in suggestion. It is the word proseuchomai, a 
compound word, made up of the preposition 
pros, and the verb ^uchbmai. The preposition 
suggests motion towards a goal; while the verb 

THE FIRST RESPONSIBILITY 217 

simply means to wish, to desire. The simplest 
idea then of prayer is that of desire towards 
God. The word is always used of prayer to the 
gods or to God. It includes the whole attitude 
and activities of prostration in worship, of the 
sense of dependence, and of the expression of 
desire. 

The phrase " continued steadfastly " is the 
translation of one Greek word prbskartereo, 
which again is a compound of the same prepo- 
sition proSy and the verb kartereo^ which means 
to be strong; that is, earnest, determined in 
effort. Thus the whole word indicates persist- 
ent, powerful perseverance. 

It is thus that those called to the ministry of 
the Word are to pray. The prayer attitude is 
that of a consciousness of need, of dependence 
upon God; and of perfect confidence in God. 
Apart from this attitude and activity, no man 
can fulfill his ministry of the Word. The ques- 
tion, " Who is sufficient for these things? " and 
the answer, " Our sufficiency is of God," com- 
bine to inspire earnest and persistent prayer, in 
the power of which the ministry of the Word 
may be exercised. 

It is then of the utmost importance that, 
from the first, the man called to this ministry 

2i8 THE FIRST RESPONSIBILITY 

should cultivate the habits of prayer. This 
needs to be done. The habits of the religious 
life are no more spontaneous than are those of 
the godless life. It is by the doing of things 
regularly, systematically, and of set purpose, 
that the time comes when they are done habit- 
ually. 

The habits of prayer are of two kinds; which 
may be described as the regular and the irregu- 
lar. The regular habits are those of set times 
and places and forms. These should be ar- 
ranged according to temperament and oppor- 
tunity, and then rigidly adhered to. The min- 
ister's study should be first of all his oratory; 
the place into which he can go and shut the 
door against all intruders; and that not only, 
and not first, to study, but to pray. 

The irregular habits of prayer are those in 
which the soul is trained to the perpetually 
Godward attitude in thought, in purpose, in 
activity. Thus prayer will be ejaculatory, or 
unuttered as to words even in thought; the 
Godward desire perpetually operating, and so 
influencing all thinking, all loving, all doing. 
Than this, nothing is more important, or more 
potential. It is thus that we may pray without 
ceasing. 

THE FIRST RESPONSIBILITY 219 

To continue steadfastly in preaching, it is nec- 
essary to do so in prayer. There must be 
prayer in preparation, for the shining of the 
true light upon the holy page, for the interpre- 
tation of the One Interpreter. There must be 
prayer in preaching, for the cooperation of that 
Spirit, through Whom the demonstration, or 
making plain, alone can come to the hearers. 
There must be prayer in all the pastoral work 
which follows preaching, for true wisdom in 
dealing with those who are to be, not only in- 
structed in the Truth, but led into obedience to 
its claims in all manner of behavior. Granted 
the man gifted, trained, and continuing sted- 
fastly in prayer, the ministry of the Word 
through him will be powerful and prevailing. 

This is to dismiss a subject of overwhelming 
importance with almost discourteous brevity. 
It is so dismissed, not from lack of the sense of 
urgency, but on account of the limitations of 
my present theme. Under other conditions 
there is nothing I should count a greater privi- 
lege than to speak at length on the vital relation 
between prayer and preaching. Here and now 
I must content myself with this brief and con- 
densed reference to that relationship. If there 
is one thing of which experience has made me 

220 THE FIRST RESPONSIBILITY 

more sure than of anything else, it is that there 
can be no fruitful and victorious ministry of the 
Word, which is not conditioned from first to 
last, not only in the sense of dependence upon 
God, but also in the active expression of it, 
which has been made available to us in the 
sacred privilege of prayer. 

The briefest backward glance over the 
ground we have traversed will illustrate and 
emphasize this matter. Service, or Ministry, 
can only be intelligently rendered as the serv- 
ants or ministers of the Word hold constant 
converse with Him of Whom the Word is the 
Expression, through the Word Who is His per- 
sect exegesis. The Word can only be rightly 
apprehended as the interpretation of the Spirit 
is sought, and that persistently. The Apostle 
who is to render it available to men by transla- 
tion or systematization needs all the time to 
ask for guidance. The Prophet proclaiming it 
to his age needs to remember that it only be- 
comes potential as it is delivered in the power 
of the Spirit, and accompanied in the delivery 
by His demonstration; and for this cooperation 
he must ever seek in prayer. The Evangelist 
can only combine the warning and wooing 
notes in the harmony of his message, as in 

THE FIRST RESPONSIBILITY 221 

prayer he gains that preparation of spirit neces- 
sary to so delicate and glorious a task. The 
Pastor and Teacher will be perpetually driven 
by the very variety of the claims made upon 
him, to seek in the Secret Place the direction of 
the One Great Shepherd of the flock. 

To meet the changed conditions of today in 
loyalty to the unchanged obligations of his min- 
istry, every preacher w^ill need to guard his own 
mind and heart and will by diligent cultivation 
of communion with God in prayer. Through 
all the perilous processes of training, men need 
prayer, prayer, and always prayer. When we 
pass out from training to the exercise of the 
holy vocation, then perhaps it is more true of 
us than of any man, and more true than at any 
time, that " men ought always to pray, and not 
to faint." 

Perhaps the final word on this matter, to be 
spoken with reverent reticence, and yet to be 
uttered unhesitatingly, is that The Word of 
God, in days of limitation, resulting from His 
infinite Self-emptying, found necessary the long 
quiet seasons of communion with God alone 
upon the mountains; and constantly interrupted 
even His pubHc speech, to offer praise or prayer 
to His Father. 

222 THE FIRST RESPONSIBILITY 

Surely then for us in the Ministry of the 
Word, the final injunction, exhortation, should 
be. Let us pray, and that without ceasing. 

Printed in the United States of America 

DATE nUE 

h 

" ^Mg&fS^^Wi^Kl^ 

► 

0»^ 

uC/., 

**1 

. ..^^ 

^ 

r cjo i 

<?"'^^>jfe 

iDi 

*****itoo 

^^ 

'^ 

mm0^^" 

DEMCO 38-297 

